0 However, .50 BMG caliber rifles are considered by some gun experts to be a poor choice because of their size, weight and cost.
9 In 1906 they captured the championship of the Süddeutschland Verband -LRB- South German League -RRB- by beating ` Karlsruher FV', one of the era 's most prominent sides.
13 It will stand immediately adjacent to the Heron Tower, another skyscraper.
14 There are several other towers planned for the area including the Bishopsgate Tower, 122 Leadenhall and 20 Fenchurch Street.
17 These fins are illuminated from inside at night for a dramatic skyline presence, giving what is considered to be a Gothic feel.
21 Year' 1692' -LRB- ` MDCXCII' -RRB- was a leap year starting on Tuesday -LRB- link will display the full calendar -RRB- of the Gregorian calendar -LRB- or a leap year starting on Friday of the 10-day slower Julian calendar -RRB-.
22 The year' 1718 in architecture' involved some significant events.
23 The year' 1768 in architecture' involved some significant events.
33 The June Free Agent Amateur Draft was one of the most productive.
37 Jordan averaged 43.7 points per game in the series, but was unable to prevent the Bulls from being swept by a more experienced, more talented Celtics team considered by many among the greatest of all-time.
40 Even the basic 1.9 petrol engine gave impressive performance, with the range topping 2.5 unit one of the best powerhouses ever found under the bonnet of a BMW.
41 Equipment levels were generally good, but it was disappointing to note that some of the cheaper models had a radio and sunroof as only optional extras.
46 In Spring 1918 many of the by-then obsolescent bombs were buried on the Western Front under metal plates as anti-tank mines in expectation of attack by German tanks.
47 This led to some later confusion as to whether unearthed bombs were unexploded mortar projectiles -LRB- `` Duds '' -RRB- or undetonated mines.
53 The Oslo Accords of 1993 between the later assassinated Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Palestine Liberation Organization Chairman Yasser Arafat had provided that agreement should be reached on all outstanding issues between the Palestinians and Israeli sides - the so-called final status settlement - within five years of the implementation of Palestinian autonomy.
57 Some people refer to the decade simply as the `` two thousands '' while others may refer to it as the `` twenty hundreds '' ; this can be written as `` the 2000s '' or `` the' 00s ''.
59 The most common format -LRB- in the English language -RRB- in referring to the individual years is to read out the full name ; i.e. 2008 as `` two thousand -LRB- and -RRB- eight ''.
61 Since this event, the LMES has not returned to Le Mans as part of their regular schedule, although many LMES participants race in the 24 Hours of Le Mans.
67 The 21 -- 3 win was considered by almost every commentator to be even more one-sided than the score indicated.
77 The player who was arguably the most affected by the Mets' loss was Shawn Green, who was greatly dissapointed, demoralized, and discouraged by the Mets' loss.
85 It is widely expected that new media will eventually supplant both DVD in the home video market and television in the broadcasting market as the primary means for distribution.
87 However, feeling resentment from the 20-year-old home video deal and unwilling to make similar concessions in a so-called `` new market '' yet again, WGA members have been adamant that whatever deal they make for new media, it can not resemble the DVD formula.
89 Although the numbers reported by police and union supporters have been very different, journalists have unanimously reported the presence of several tens of thousands of demonstrators.
95 On July 13th, seven people were killed and many others missing when a bus fell into a rivulet after being swept away by flood waters in Nayagarh district in Orissa.
98 The most flood affected districts in Orissa are Nayagarh, Cuttack, Ganjam, Keonjhar, Koraput and Kandhamal.
104 At a young age 20 became very angry and depressed, partially due to the fact that his father was gone and his family had to live in shelters.
107 When operating in an anti-materiel mode, a 25 mm weapon armed with AP rounds can disable many aircraft and vehicles, including some main battle tanks.
108 The 2540p mode features 4520 vertical lines of resolution, although sometime in the future may be changed for technical reasons.
109 Famous Danish models from this agency is ; Louise P, Helena Christensen, Lykke May, Tina Mogensen, Anna Davolio and many more ....
112 It would be impossible to estimate how many other thousands of enemy dead were covered with the phrase `` results unobserved ''.
113 It is probably named after the monster, Charybdis, a monster in Greek mythology.
118 Observations of the photosphere of 47 Ursae Majoris suggested that the periodicity could not be explained by stellar activity, making the planet interpretation more likely.
121 It was modeled after the earlier 43 Group, which had also included Bidney as a member, and which had been associated with Jack ` The Spot' Comer.
122 It was in' 7 Vidas' that the now internationally famous actress Paz Vega, and other Spanish actors first became household names in Spain..
123 It is hard to overstate the significance that a positive identification of 7Q5 as would have on biblical literary criticism, which may explain both the motivation to see the ` Gospel of Mark' in the fragment and the reticence of many to hang so much on such a small thread.
130 It may be indicative that multiculturalism may not be very useful without larger forces avoiding conflict.
131 Or it may be that certain cultural differences are intractable.
136 The project is currently signed with several publishing agencies including Pump Audio, BeatPick, and Song Catalog.
140 This film was known as ` Rape of Malaya' in U.S. cinemas, and by various other titles in non-English-speaking countries.
141 While the Skyraider is not as iconic as some other aircraft, it has been featured in some Vietnam-era films such as ` The Green Berets' -LRB- 1968 -RRB-, ` Flight of the Intruder' -LRB- 1991 -RRB- flying as Sandy escort, and in ` We Were Soldiers' -LRB- 2002 -RRB- in the ground support role.
152 Clinical use of this term was widely discontinued by the year 2000 in the United States after having been replaced by modern laboratory criteria.
153 The most successful riders have included Doug Chandler, Scott Russell, Miguel Duhamel and Mat Mladin, who holds several series records including six championships.
157 By this time, `` ANZAC '' had ceased to be an acronym and had begun to be used as a term to describe any formation containing Australian or New Zealand units.
165 Although it was RISC-like in some aspects, it was an `` oddball '' design in most others.
167 However it was used in and insipired more famous hardware, shown below.
168 The title were supposedly revived in 2005 in Dale Gagner 's independent promotion AWA Superstars of Wrestling, who relicensed the AWA name.
170 AWA Superstars of Wrestling has claimed lineage for their title to the classic AWA title and control over the title history, but because there is no connection to the original organizations or individuals involved therein, no continuity in title reigns or even physical belts, and questionable legal use of the AWA name, the claims made by AWA Superstars of Wrestling are in historical dispute and in legal jeopardy.
172 Pakistani photographers Arshad Tareen, Athar Shahzad and Tapu Javeri have deemed her the most photogenic model and a pleasure to work with.
174 This Aarup can trace its history back to 1500, but it would be 1860 's before it would become a town.
178 Khorramshahi was involved in several controversial cases like detained British embassy political analyst Hossein Rassam who was arrested after Iran 's disputed presidential election in 2009.
179 He was also representing Roxana Saberi, an Iranian-American journalist who was arrested on charges of espionage by the Iranian government, but was later released.
182 In particular, the Theravada Abhidharma contains two texts -LRB- the ` Katha Vatthu' and ` Puggala Pannatti' -RRB- that some consider entirely out of place in an Abhidharma collection.
183 The school offers a plethora of student activities including athletics, band, chorus, One act theater, DECA, National Honor Society, Washington County Community Scholars and FFA, as well as numerous other academic and service clubs.
189 There are many outdoor pursuits available including walking, cycling, and, most notably, gliding from the airfield just outside the village.
196 Christopher Lee was considered for the lead before Burton agreed to it.
198 In 629 he went to Medina with some others from his tribe.
200 Academic clinical trials are run at academic sites, such as medical schools, academic hospitals, and universities ; and non-academic sites which may be managed by so-called site management organizations -LRB- SMOs -RRB-.
201 Site management organizations are for-profit organizations which enlist and manage the physician practice sites that actually recruit and follow patients enrolled in clinical trials.
202 In some cases, academic members participate in clinical trials as members of SMOs.
203 With York Region 's Viva as a precedent, it is probable that the Acceleride routes will share the same fare structure as the conventional Brampton Transit system.
205 ` Ace Combat 2' is part of Namco 's ` Ace Combat' series and continues the arcade style gameplay of its predecessor, with some minor improvements.
206 It has been seen as the best in the series, and various subsequent ` Ace Combat' games use similar maps or missions.
208 Acharavi has a school, a few churches, and a square -LRB- ` plateia' -RRB-, its nearest lyceum -LRB- middle school -RRB-, gymnasium -LRB- secondary school -RRB-, banks and a post office are in the municipal seat.
210 On Thursday, January 22nd, 2009, The Acoustic Lounge was officially named as one of Podbean 's Top 5 most popular Music Podcasts for 2008 during the site 's first annual awards.
213 In contrast to activin, much less is known about the mechanism of action of inhibin, but may involve competing with activin for binding to activin receptors and/or binding to inhibin-specific receptors.
227 Nanonics -LRB- nanotechnology -RRB- is widely used within the adamist culture, with every adult having at least some nanotech installed.
237 Some fans have reasoned that this takes place after the first film but before the second.
238 This movie shed some light on Lurch 's family history, Gomez stated that Lurch was not a full Addams, he is also part Morcowski, part Coen, part Vergasso, part Murtagh, and part Torrence.
241 This clearly alludes to the fact that Lurch is some kind of Frankenstein monster ; in the Addams Family books he is often described as `` an experiment that Baron Frankenstein forgot ''.
245 Conspiracy theorists claim he was the true target for assassination, for he had documents concerning the October surprise conspiracy theory and was planning on taking them to the United Nations 's General Assembly.
246 According to this conspiracy theory, Reagan promised to sell American weapons to Iran, to replace the old Portuguese ones ; the Portuguese military were acting as middlemen -LRB- two of the Portuguese Presidential candidates, in 1980, were Generals, and one of them was promptly accused as responsible for the assassination by many Sá Carneiro supporters -RRB- ; a boat with the weapons was almost seized at Lisbon 's harbor.
247 This theory is reinforced with the fact that Amaro da Costa was the one renting the plane, and Sá Carneiro a last minute passenger -LRB- possibly as a decoy -RRB-.
250 Their books were some of the first to include GPS coordinates in their directions.
258 However, most students are able to not only meet these requirements, but often earn additional credit hours, if not graduate from high-school a year earlier than their peers.
260 Atari 's ` Adventure' went on to sell a million copies and is considered by many to be one of the company 's finest games.
261 The society has spread rapidly over the Catholic world, and branches of the society were found in many countries.
262 Colleges of the Advocates of St. Peter, numbering many hundred members, existed in Italy, England, Austria, France, Spain, Germany, Canada and South America.
272 Aganju is heavily associated with Shango, with some stating that he is Shango 's father, if not at least his brother.
275 He is considered `` one heart '' with Oya and is received by all of Shango 's, Oshun 's, and Oya 's children.
278 On a very familiar note, Microsoft has been sued by Agere for theft of key technology used in Internet telephony.
280 This technology is used to improve the sound of telephone and teleconference communications over the Internet -LRB- ie, VOIP -RRB-.
281 Just before the agreement was to be signed, Microsoft ended the discussions saying that it made a significant breakthrough in its own, heretofore undisclosed research program, and no longer needed Agere 's technology.
286 He succeeded, however, in gaining over three very influential persons : his uncle Agesilaus -LRB- a man of large property, but who, being deeply involved in debt, hoped to profit by the innovations of Agis -RRB-, Lysander -LRB- a descendant of the victor of Aegospotami -RRB- and Mandrocleides.
289 The Foundation 's actions are to be linked to those of the `` association to allow Montpellier institutions involved in agricultural sciences as a whole -LRB- totalizing approx. 2300 scientists -RRB- to reach the same international repute as other agricultural research institutes at European -LRB- e.g. Wageningen University, with 1400 scientists -RRB- or international -LRB- e.g. the centers network, with 1800 scientists -RRB- level.
290 Rabbi ` Aharon -LRB- or Ahroyn, Aaron, Aron -RRB- Kotler' -LRB- 1891 - 1962 -RRB- was a prominent leader of Orthodox Judaism in Lithuania, and later the United States of America, where he built one of the first yeshivas in the US.
291 In mid-November 2000, the 9/11 Commission believes that al-Nami, Wail and Waleed al-Shehri, all of whom had obtained their U.S. visas in late October, traveled in a group from Saudi Arabia to Beirut and then onward to Iran where they could travel through to Afghanistan without getting their passports stamped.
292 This probably followed their return to Saudi Arabia to get `` clean '' passports.
293 An associate of a senior Hezbollah operative is thought to have been on the same flight, although this may have been a coincidence.
294 One of his most significant works, among others, is a novel entitled `` The Time Regulation Institute '' -LRB- Saatleri Ayarlama Enstitüsü -RRB-.
295 The book has been widely acclaimed as an ironic criticism of the bureaucratization process with the implication that its title suggests, though that 's not what the book is all about.
299 Most of the characters of the novel seem to be struggling in quite weird manners in order to survive in modern times.
303 Although many people superstitiously believe that air conditioning is unconditionally dangerous for one 's health, especially in areas where air conditioning is not common, this belief is unsupported by fact ; properly maintained air-conditioning systems do not cause or promote illness.
305 Cockpit doors on most commercial airlines have been strengthened, and are now bullet proof.
306 In the United Kingdom, United States, Australia and India, air marshals have also been added to some flights to deter and thwart hijackers.
307 In addition, some have proposed remote control systems for aircraft whereby no one on board would have control over the plane 's flight.
308 Most of the airlines publish the seat configurations for their aircraft, but the quality of these seat maps is sometimes questionable.
309 Some of the details and information about seats are confusing.
311 At the end of the First World War, Airdrie was hard hit with many casualties from the war.
312 Many inhabitants also chose to emigrate around this time.
314 The depression years had made a great impact on the town and several well known manufacturers ceased to exist and few replaced them.
315 It was reported that 50 % of the registered population were unemployed.
316 Church groups tried to provide some comfort for the poor folk in the area and set up educational and work experience projects to help and by 1936 the Airdrie Churches Council had attracted national interest through their work culminating in a building in Graham Street being provided for them -LRB- the Mutual Service Club -RRB-.
320 Ajman International Airport hosting about two million passengers per year has also been announced, and construction will start in the second half of 2008 in the Al Manama area of the Ajman, and airport operations are set to start by 2011.
326 Many attempts were made to shut down in 2002 -LRB- mostly through DoS attacks -RRB-, until one American porn-site owner named Jon Messner finally took control of the website.
331 It is now a link to ItsHappening.com, a website about current events.
346 Albert took a leading part in the operations which preceded the battle of Sedan, the 4th army being the pivot on which the whole army wheeled round in pursuit of Mac-Mahon ; and the actions of Buzancy and Beaumont on 29 and 30 August 1870 were fought under his direction ; in the Battle of Sedan itself -LRB- 1 September 1870 -RRB-, with the troops under his orders, Albert carried out the envelopment of the French on the east and north.
350 As with many of Dallas 's early reports, his report of the this case is incomplete, and invites as many questions as it answers.
354 An appellate court might review a trial court 's decision, but it typically does not make evidentiary decisions in the first place, nor would it give a charge -LRB- or instruction -RRB- to a jury.
360 -LRB- The drinking age had been 18 for many years before the first raise in 1982. -RRB-.
363 He was opposed to the conflict because it was not authorised by a United Nations Security Council resolution, which was a controversial subject at the time.
365 Zander is considered to be the most exciting prospoects of Caley Thistle 's squad, and former manager Charlie Christie failing to give Zander a decent amount of match time has left many fans frustrated.
366 Alexius provided for the improvement of education with the building and enlargement of many churches and schools.
369 Alexius Frederick Christian began the build of several major construction projects, such as the later destroyed ` Saalebrücke' in Bernburg -LRB- Saale -RRB-.
384 Schonfeld adapted to her environment with a variety of visual reminders, enabling her to create many of her more notable works.
385 One version of lines six and seven,' `` I had a little book, was given to me, / And every page spelled liberty ''', Peter, Paul and Mary could be seen as ambiguous about the identity of the `` little book '', particularly if read apart from the rest of the song, and it may be taken to mean that' `` liberty ''' is both a political and a religious liberty.
386 Irrespective of this, the ultimate hope of liberty, whether heavenly or earthly, is seen by the writer as something that can not be taken from people, no matter how poor or oppressed they are.
387 There is a specific reference to class divisions and that death is an equalizer :' `` If religion was a thing that money could buy, / The rich would live and the poor would die '''.
388 Except for some brief instances in the first season, there was no background or transitional music.
390 British sprinters had made little impression on the international scene, and the sight of the Scot winning two Gold medals -LRB- 200 m, 4 x 100 m -RRB-, and a Silver -LRB- 100 m -RRB- at the Commonwealth Games in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, was a surprise for British athletics fans.
393 Although standards at the school have declined considerably, the pass rate is still quite high and the boys still manage to hold their own against other schools on the sports field.
394 There is potential of revival through the old boys' committee with many old boys now being based in the USA, the UK, and South Africa.
395 There are also many successful old boys living in Zimbabwe.
396 American backed Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi was overthrown and replaced by Ayatollah Khomeini, the government of Iran is accused by United States, Israel and some European countries, of funding, providing equipment, weapons, training and giving sanctuary to `` terrorists '', most notably Palestinians.
407 It is a reasonably busy rural market town, which has - by way of yardstick - the district hospital and maternity home, and the main banks.
408 According to Country Life, October 2002, `` Alnwick is the most picturesque market town in Northumberland, and the best place to live in Britain ''.
411 The fabric of the town, in parts, reflects its history, although there has been much contemporary development.
417 It defines the stance of movements opposed to a neoliberal globalization, but favorable to a globalization respectful of human rights, the environment, national sovereignty, and cultural diversity.
419 He spent most of his term in China in the central and southern provinces ; perhaps his only trip north was the one he made to Xi'an in 1625, during which he was the first European to see the recently unearthed Nestorian Stele.
420 Stardust was part of the Green Cross Code road safety campaign ` Children 's Heroes' -LRB- 1976 -RRB- with his famous tagline of `` You must be out of your tiny minds '' directing children to look both ways before they cross the road.
421 Beckerman is best known for her exquisite, clean gymnastics, impeccably long and smooth legs, and her tremendous dance ability.
426 To prevent the Brothers from destroying each other, characters from each universe battled to determine which universe would survive ; several of the matches were determined by fan votes.
432 Mustafa Kemal Pasha, Rauf Orbay and Bekir Sami Bey on the one side, in their title of Delegation of Representatives -LRB- ` Heyeti Temsiliye' -RRB- as attributed by the Sivas Congress, and the Ottoman Minister of Marine -LRB- ` later grand vizier himself' -RRB- Hulusi Salih Pasha, who had come to Amasya to represent the short-lived Ottoman government of Ali Riza Pasha on the other side signed the protocol just after Sivas Congress in the same city of Amasya Circular.
435 Also, many other major electronics manufacturers such as Sony and LG have plants there.
438 When the widely popular comedian Mehmood launched his own production of ` Chotte Nawab' -LRB- 1961 -RRB-, he sidelined all the established heroines of the day and cast Ameeta as his female lead.
440 She had even been considered a more viable star option, when she replaced Asha Parekh after she was dropped from the lead in ` Goonj Uthi Shehnai' -LRB- 1959 -RRB-.
449 The association 's input was considered but ultimately rejected.
452 It is said by some that America does not have an actual Empire, in that she has never had aquired any overseas teritories, either through war or negotiation.
453 However, many others believe that the adverse acquisition of Hawai'i and many other U.S. territories were indeed quite imperial.
458 Like its British counterpart, the RV, and like other versions that have succeeded it, the ASV drew fire from the slowly-growing King James Only Movement for an alleged basis on faulty manuscripts.
459 One such critic refused to call it `` Standard '', since it never gained wide popularity.
460 He preferred to call it the American Revised Version, saying that the KJV had a better right to be called the `` Authorized Version '' than the version of 1901 had to be called the `` American Standard Version ''.
463 However, as with the Amiga range in general, Commodore do not appear to have been overly concerned with naming consistency, the being one example of this.
465 It was notable for introducing new versions of Kickstart and Workbench, and for some minor improvements in the custom chips, known as the Enhanced Chip Set -LRB- or ECS -RRB-.
466 Some notable artists included Nasenbluten, Xylocaine and Animal Intelligence, who would often fuse elements of hard metal and gangsta rap with the gabber and speedcore of the time.
469 Amphetamine is also used by some professional athletes for its strong stimulant effect.
471 This practice can be extremely dangerous, and some athletes have died as a result.
472 Amphetamine use was common among Major League Baseball -LRB- MLB -RRB- athletes and were commonly known by the slang term `` greenies '' due to the pills' color.
474 Some truck drivers, especially long haul drivers, take amphetamine to combat symptoms of somnolence and to increase their concentration on driving.
480 Reviewers often cite Amy Macdonald as a shy spoken 20 year old girl who comes alive with her booming singing voice.
488 Historian Carl Becker in ` History of Political Parties in the Province of New York, 1760-1776' -LRB- 1909 -RRB- formulated the Progressive interpretation of the American Revolution.
494 Authorship of particularly noteworthy anamonics is often acknowledged, although this is not necessarily expected by the Scrabble community.
495 Some market-oriented anarchist philosophies are considered left-libertarian.
497 Kevin A. Carson 's book -LSB- ` Studies in Mutualist Political Economy' -RSB- was influential in this regard, updating the labor theory of value with Austrian economics.
498 Agorism, an anarchist tendency founded by Samuel Edward Konkin III, advocates counter-economics, working in black or grey markets, and boycotting the unfree taxed market as much as possible, with the intended result that private voluntary institutions emerge and outcompete statist ones.
499 Geoanarchism, an anarchist form of Henry George 's philosophy, is considered left-libertarian because it assumes land to be initially owned in common, so that when land is privately appropriated the proprietor pays rent to the community.
502 In the seminal agorist work, -LSB- The New Libertarian Manifesto -RSB-, agorism is repeatedly described as left, presumably because it opposes the Old Order and is critical of political capitalism.
504 Similarly, Kevin Carson 's Mutualism.org self-identifies as left libertarian, e.g. `` Other anarchist subgroups, and the libertarian left generally, share these ideas to some extent. ''.
510 It was considered important enough that it was included in the 1814 constitution.
512 The ` Dogu' is speculated to be an Ancient Astronaut that visited earth during the Jomon period of Ancient Japan, it shows features resembling a space suit, goggles and a space helmet.
518 The compiler itself was largely inspired by the `` Tiny Pascal '' compiler in Niklaus Wirth 's '' ` Algorithms + Data Structures = Programs' '', one of the most influential computer science books of the time.
527 His first poetic collection, Ipsikaminos, was a heretic book, characterized by the lack of the punctuation and the peculiarity of the language.
531 In 1993 Melnichenko was one of the co-founders of which grew to become one of Russia 's largest private banks within ten years.
535 Smith promised the farmers protection from the natives and persuaded many of the party to remain, but Pretorius departed, and, on the proclamation of British sovereignty up to the Vaal River, fixed his residence in the Magaliesberg, north of that river.
538 In August, he was defeated at Boomplaats by Smith and retreated to the north of the Vaal, where he became leader of one of the largest of the parties into which the Transvaal Boers were divided, and commandant-general of Potchefstroom and Rustenburg, his principal rival being Commandant-General A. H. Potgieter.
541 André Éric Létourneau 's cultural manoeuvers work involves many media that are used simultaneously along with practices from other fields -LRB- such as science, sociology, psychology, community works, etc -RRB-.
542 It may be difficult to categorize his work as much as of the practice by this artist involves operating directly within the social fabric while involving different social and ontological phenomena.
547 In ` Child 's Play 2', Andy has been sent to a foster home while his mother, who was considered mentally unstable, has been undergoing psychiatric testing, Mike Norris is also absent from the film as he, according to a comic based on the series, under the threat of being fired, has been forced to abandon the `` chucky is alive '' case and hench leave Andy to his fate -LRB- though he did help Mrs Barclay be put in a mental institute and not a Prison -LRB- she was believed to be responsible for the murders of the first film -RRB- -RRB-.
553 In economics, ` anecdotal value' refers to the primarily social and political value of an anecdote or anecdotal evidence in promoting understanding of a social, cultural, or economic phenomenon.
554 While anecdotal evidence is typically disparaged as unscientific among social sciences, in the last several decades the evaluation of anecdotes has received sustained academic scrutiny from economists and scholars such as S.G. Checkland -LRB- on David Ricardo -RRB-, Steven Novella, Hollis Robbins, R. Charleton, Kwamena Kwansah-Aidoo, and others ; these academics seek to quantify the value inherent in the deployment of anecdotes.
555 More recently, economists studying choice models have begun assessing anecdotal value in the context of framing ; Kahneman and Tversky suggest that choice models may be contingent on stories or anecdotes that frame or influence choice.
556 As an example, consider Joseph Stalin 's apocryphal quote : `` The death of one man is a tragedy, the death of millions is a statistic. '' commonly attributed by English-language dictionaries to Josef Stalin.
557 It documents the tale of two people with schizophrenia, Harry -LRB- Lynch -RRB- and Kate -LRB- McKenzie -RRB- who meet during therapy and fall passionately in love and guessing puzzles via TV game show Wheel Of Fortune.
569 For example, Eric Goldberg was the supervising animator of the Genie in ` Aladdin', but he was not involved in the animation of any other major characters or sequences.
572 It has also been suggested that in the ` Dolorous Passion', some passages can be read to attribute supernatural motivation for Jewish antagonism toward Christ during the crucifixion, and allege that this antipathy has intrinsic demonic grounds that pervade their very beings.
573 Yet others point out that such referrals can also be read as referring to human nature in general, and not to some intrinsic `` Jewishness ''.
575 Both Gibson 's movie and Emmerich 's ` Dolorous Passion' have been criticized as anti-Semitic by the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai Brith.
576 Some Catholics have suggested that the movie 's depiction of Jews conflicts with current political guidelines on Catholic-Jewish relations.
582 She created some of Tucson 's most prominent buildings including the El Conquistador Hotel and Saford School.
583 In the Catholic Church, ` annulment' is a canonical procedure according to the Canon Law whereby an ecclesial tribunal judges whether the bond of matrimony in a particular case was entered into invalidly -- that is, that the a true marriage according to God never took place.
587 While some may try to use an annulment to get around the `` no divorce '' rule, that is not the reason the Church has a process to declare nullity.
588 Pornography trading is one public reason against anonymous P2P networks, and some believe that the networks aid terrorism.
590 The first is that all information is neutral, and that it is the people acting upon the information that can be good or evil.
591 The second is that perceptions of good and evil change -LRB- See moral panic -RRB- : If anonymous peer-to-peer networks had been around in the 1950s or 1960s, they might have been targeted for carrying information about civil rights or anarchism.
592 Furthermore, encryption is now a mature, well-known and widely-spread technology.
601 ` Flashback' does seem to make a few direct references to ` Another World', including the prominent use of personal force fields in combat, a nearly identical end text in the ending cutscene, and an almost exact motion recreation of the gun pickup cutscene.
604 In Marseille, Antenor confiscated property from the abbey of Saint-Victor de Marseille and ordered the documents recording the abbey 's claims to these lands to be burnt, thus demonstrating a common tactic of the age amongst statesmen : confiscation of ecclesiastic land to pay followers.
607 During the 1992 presidential campaign, he was one of Clinton 's chief foreign policy advisers.
611 Estonia and Latbia have been accused of phasing out Russian-language schools -LRB- despite having large Russophone minorities -RRB-.
616 The origins of the Soviet ASAT program are unclear.
617 According to some accounts, Sergei Korolev started some work on the concept in 1956 at his OKB-1, while others attribute the work to Vladimir Chelomei 's OKB-52 around 1959.
619 Here, Chelomei outlined his rocket and spacecraft program, and received a go-ahead to start development of the UR-200 rocket, one of its many roles being the launcher for his anti-satellite project.
621 There is no scientific evidence that the ALCAT test is useful for diagnosing allergies and relying upon the results of this test may lead to inappropriate advice and treatments.
623 Such substances are often similar in structure to the metabolite that they interfere with, such as the antifolates that interfere with the use of folic acid.
626 ~ In response, the ` Orthodox Church in the Philippines' was registered by Father Deacon Chris Gain with the Philippine Securities and Exchange Commission in December of 2006, and a study center has been established at Saint Andrew 's Episcopal Seminary in Quezon City, the purpose of which is to gather those interested in Orthodoxy and forming small parish communities within the settlement areas of the country and stimulate interest in Orthodox theology and history within the local population.
629 He was apparently a foreigner -LRB- perhaps from Cius, on the Propontis, Smyrna or Rhodes -RRB- who settled in Athens, where he began to write about 387.
630 He was extremely prolific : more than 200 of the 365 -LRB- or 260 -RRB- comedies attributed to him are known to us from the titles and considerable fragments preserved in Athenaeus.
633 He was not favorably looked upon by some of the artistic community 's elite due to his outspokenness and because he was part of the circle of activists in the French Revolution of 1830.
634 During that period of turmoil Préault 's studio was vandalized and many of his plaster models were destroyed.
635 As a result of these circumstances his work has been largely overshadowed by his contemporaries.
636 Other people born within the non peninsular territories of Imperial Spain, settled there also to impose the new order established, such as the Flemish born military engineer Prospero Jorge de Verboom and French born military engineer Antoine Le Prestre, Count of Vauban, -LRB- 1659 - 1731 -RRB-, cadet brother of the famous French military engineer Sébastien Le Prestre, Marquis of Vauban, -LRB- 1633 - 1707 -RRB-, out of favour earlier by his published, unauthorized, political economy ideas with King Louis XIV of France, -LRB- September 1638 - September 1715 -RRB-.
640 Antrim is drained by the Contoocook River and its North Branch, in addition to Great Brook.
645 For many people the clash may their closest involvement with ANZAC Day remembrance services.
648 The tomb is notable for the fact that burials did not only take place inside the tholos tomb, but also took place in some of the outer rooms which join the tholos tomb as well.
649 It also had a cult room, most likely a pillar crypt, since it had a wooden pillar on a stone base.
650 A small bench altar was built in a niche to the right of the entrance.
655 The apostasioid orchids are the most primitive orchids, with only two genera.
663 The aircraft was thought to be lying in approximately 90 metres of water, but as of 3 April the exact location was not known.
664 No EPIRB beacon signal had been reported.
666 The band 's lead guitarist is Jerry Fielden who has been around since the 1970s playing in a variety of Montreal and Toronto bands.
667 Due to his lengthy involvement in the Montreal music scene, he has been privileged enough to have played in many of the iconic venues of both Montreal and Toronto.
668 According to his bio, he has played with many indie and more mainstream Canadian music icons including such singer/songwriters as Jeff Healey and Frank and Vince Marino.
672 His influences are extensive and musically derived from the era of 70 's rock though his playing style and sound, reflect a more modern flavour.
681 The land of Aram-Naharaim -LRB- `` Aram of the Two Rivers '' -RRB- that included Haran, mentioned five times in the Bible, is traditionally thought to be populated by descendants of Aram, as is the nearby land of Aram that included Aram Damascus and Aram Rehob.
682 Arame is high in calcium, iodine, iron, magnesium, and vitamin A as well as being a good dietary source for many other minerals.
685 Lignan content in arame is noted by several sources.
690 The controversy arises whereby most individuals agree that the answer is ` I'.
695 Arequipas' first mayor was D. Juan de la Torre y Díaz Chacón, one of the most important conquistadores and founders of Peru.
699 For many years units have played rugby sevens, but there was no representative side.
701 The occasion gave rise to the creation of an Army Sevens team, which has become a significant force in the game, winning some of the sport 's major competitions.
705 Since that time, Lokeren has signed many Icelandic players, for instance midfielder Rúnar Kristinsson who holds the Icelandic record for most international caps.
706 The basin of the Arnaud River, though intensely glaciated for almost the whole of the Quaternary - ice sheets are known to have been thicker over the basin at the Last Glacial Maximum than they are over Antarctica today - is the site of a major meteorite impact about a million years ago that has been surprisingly well preserved, probably because the exposed surface rocks are exceedingly old and the meteorite might have been deposited in such a way as to ensure preservation during the long glaciations.
707 It has been said Schwarzenegger has a `` business empire ''.
720 He has talked about some of those who have helped over the years in business : `` I could n't have learned about business without a parade of teachers guiding me ... from Milton Friedman to Donald Trump ... and now, Les Wexner and Warren Buffett.
725 Destination Artek was considered to be an honorable award for Soviet children as well as internationally.
729 By the age of 33, Goldreich had moved to South Africa where he became one of the country 's most successful artists.
730 In 1955, he won South Africa 's Best Young Painter Award for his figures in black and white, but to the Prime Minister Hendrik Verwoerd 's regime, he was a key suspect in the clandestine operations of the anti-apartheid underground.
745 The total lung capacity -LRB- TLC -RRB- may be reduced through alveolar wall thickening ; however this is not always the case.
752 A little over a decade, starting in the mid 1980 's, the basketball courts at the Eureka park brought some fine talent to the North Schuylkill Lady Spartan basketball team.
753 Many career 1000 point scorers came from these dedicated girls, who either practiced on their own time, or played summer leagues sponsored by the Ashland Trusts.
758 The most popular Lady Spartan in school history, later played Division I basketball at Virginia Tech.
761 During the production of the reality show that gave birth to O-Town, ` Making the Band', many of Ashley 's co-workers considered him perfect for the role of a boy band member, as a result of his passion, enthusiasm, talent, and boyish good looks.
762 He is often considered the group 's heartthrob.
764 Some of the areas covered by these groups are gaming, graphics, and the Java programming language.
770 The text is written in the modernist mode, without a set structure, and with many shifts in the narrative.
775 In a rock mass the component minerals may vary, but in general, sandy rocks are composed principally of quartz -LRB- SiO2 -RRB-, limestones mainly of calcite -LRB- CaCO3 -RRB-, coals largely of Carbon -LRB- C -RRB-, and clays or shales mainly of assemblages of iron - or magnesium-alumino-silicates.
777 In the arts and antiques, ` attribution' is the judgment by experts as to the authorship, date, or other aspect of the origin of a work of art or cultural artifact.
786 Some years after women had obtained the right to vote and to run for office, most of the first women candidates in Western Australia, New South Wales, Queensland and Victoria were members of the League.
787 While they generally worked with conservative political parties, on occasion they did not.
790 Some autistic rights activists believe some characteristics described as being autistic traits are actually misconceptions and desire to educate the population about what they believe are the real reasons these alleged misconceptions occur.
792 It is accessible by air -LRB- flights to Barcelona, Girona, or Reus -RRB-, by train -LRB- Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat, RENFE -RRB-, by coach -LRB- SARBUS -RRB-, or by car -LRB- AP-7 and C-58 motorways -RRB-.
793 In 2005, after several years of not being used, the track was rebuilt as a half-mile oval to host NASCAR events.
800 It can be found that the enactment of Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners Act does not take into its fold traditional practitioners of Chinese medicine who were otherwise not qualified in the system.
801 In fact, the Act attempts to regulate the practice of Chinese medicine and not legalize traditional practice of Chinese medicine.
803 In fact, it can not be disputed that traditional knowledge does not exist.
804 In case, any person has specific knowledge of a process or a product, that can be allowed to be patented but that should not give a license for that person to practice Ayurvedic system of medicine without legally recognized qualification.
806 NGO Monitor, an Israeli non-governmental organization which aims to stop humanitarian NGOs from promoting agendas which it perceives as anti-Israel, has accused B'Tselem of having a political agenda and falsifying and distorting data.
807 NGO Monitor further writes that B'Tselem employs `` abusive and demonizing rhetoric designed to elicit political support for Palestinians ''.
809 The B-26 is said to have had the lowest combat loss rate of any U.S. aircraft used during the war.
810 Nevertheless, it remained a challenging plane to fly and continued to be unpopular with some pilots throughout its military career.
811 After his death in 1962, his widow donated many of his works to Poole Museum, which now boasts the world 's largest collection of Gribble paintings.
813 Typical paintings in the Poole collection are ` The Plague Ship', ` The Whelp of the Black Rover' and ` The Return of the Argosy Galleons', but there are also some local topographical works such as the Guildhall, the Custom House, views of the Quay and harbour, a portrait of former Mayor of Poole, Herbert Carter, in civic regalia and one of a woman believed to be his wife Nellie.
814 Over recent years BBC Two has often been accused of `` dumbing down '', and since the launch of the digital-only BBC Four, the BBC has been accused in particular of letting its more highbrow output go to the new channel, which a sizeable minority -LRB- 25.2 % in the third quarter of 2006 -RRB- of viewers still can not receive, rather than BBC Two, the perceived strategy being to allow BBC Two to show more popular programmes and to secure higher ratings.
815 Many commentators have judged there to be a strong resemblance between the new Four and the earlier, more ambitious, BBC Two.
817 The company that published ` BLK' also published several other titles directed to the black LGBT community including ` Blackfire', an erotic magazine for men ; ` Black Lace', an erotic magazine for women ; ` Kuumba', a co-sexual poetry journal ; ` Black Dates', a calendar of events for Southern California and ` The BLK Guide to Southern California for Black People in the Life'.
821 She was then transferred to the Philippines in 19 August 1967 and was commissioned to the Philippine Navy as the RPS -LRB- now BRP -RRB- ` Quezon' -LRB- PS-70 -RRB-, and together with her sister ship, was one of the Navy 's main warships during the 1960s up to the present.
822 The album did n't have a good reception commercially, selling considerably less than their previous one, ` Dopádromo' ; nevertheless it was highly acclaimed critically.
827 He notes that those born in the years before the actual boom were often the most influential people among boomers.
831 Most Bagris come from a village in Punjab called Chak Kalan -LRB- also called Chak Bagrian -RRB-, near Jullundar.
833 There are still some Bagri of Gurjar clan in Rajasthan ; most of them live in Tonk district.
835 Like the other Latin American tapirs -LRB- the Mountain Tapir and the South American Tapir -RRB-, Baird 's Tapir is commonly called danta by people in all areas.
837 Costa Ricans, Panamanians, and Colombians call it ` macho de monte', and in Belize, where the Baird 's Tapir is the national animal, it is known as the mountain cow.
839 Many attribute the decay to low pitch vibrations produced by late 19th Century pipe organs, the proliferation of the 32 foot pipe particularly responsible, although some blame the vibrations from inner city traffic.
844 Baldwin V was carried on the shoulders of Balian of Ibelin, not only because Balian was particularly tall, but also to demonstrate that his aunt Isabella 's family supported his accession.
850 These branches are intended for use by large companies and for permanent residents of Brasil who visit the other countries, but they offer regular services for residents of the countries they are located at.
857 The bank traces its roots to First Bancgroup of Ohio, founded as a holding company for City National Bank of Columbus, Ohio and several other banks in that state, all of which were renamed `` Bank One '' when the holding company was renamed ` Banc One Corporation'.
863 Critics of capitalism as presently managed, including George Soros -LRB- who personally made billions exploiting the UK 's clumsy attempts to prop up the pound sterling -RRB-, argue that there is no will to enforce any significant regulation in the present competitive financial industry, where nations effectively compete to offer less regulation.
865 In fiscal 2007, RBC 's Canadian segment called `` Personal Financial Services '' -LRB- the segment most related to what was traditionally thought of as retail banking -RRB- had revenue of only CAD$ 5,082 million -LRB- or 22.6 % -RRB- of a total revenue of CAD$ 22,462 million.
873 Problems of the bankruptcy type arise in many real life situations.
875 Another example would be the division of an estate amongst several heirs, particularly when the estate can not meet all the deceased 's commitments.
876 In the U.S. today, a significant group of Baptists, as well as some other Protestants, believe the United States was formed as a Christian nation by the Founding Fathers.
877 They assert that the term `` separation of church and state '' in no way limits religion in the state, but merely refers to the state 's responsibility to refrain from exerting authority over ecclesial bodies.
881 Some argue in favor of organized Christian prayer and Bible reading in the public schools during regular school hours, which federal courts have generally restricted to voluntary groups outside the purview of state-supported educators acting in their professional roles.
883 Also of note is that, for the music video, Mercury shaved off his trademark moustache, which he had for most of the 1980s.
887 KBRW is also broadcast via FM repeaters in all of the North Slope Borough villages, from Kaktovik to Point Hope.
888 Many well-known stars of stage, screen and television have launched their careers at Barter, including Gregory Peck, Ernest Borgnine, Patricia Neal, Ned Beatty, Hume Cronyn, Gary Collins, Frances Fisher, Kevin Spacey, Larry Linville and Wayne Knight.
892 It has a 1300 meters long airstrip -LRB- ` Teniente Rodolfo Marsh Martin Aerodrome', ICAO Code SCRM -RRB-, with 50 intercontinental and 150 intracontinental flights each season, serving as a means of transport to many bases around.
895 Much has been said or written of the collision of social classes which took place at Sutton Hoo in 1939, and their impact on the relationships of the excavators.
900 While they remain predominantly based around Rehoboth, some Basters continued to trek northward, settling in the southern Angolan city of Lubango, where they are known as the Ouivamo -LRB- many of these were forced to return to Namibia between 1928 and 1930 by white South Africans, who could n't understand why their illiterate and deeply religious cousins wanted to live amongst the ` savages' -RRB-.
903 It is thought by some that such services apply implied pressure to offer financial reward for a concievably limited service, and as such have seen the discussion of social etiquette in such situations.
908 For example, the artist may use etching, discharge dyeing, stencils, different tools for waxing and dyeing, wax recipes with different resist values and work with silk, cotton, wool, leather, paper or even wood and ceramics.
910 The public transportation system is highly criticized as low performing and not averaging enough riders to continue to be successful in the Baton Rouge area.
911 Area leaders recently took part in an all day ride of the Baton Rouge buses to determine what the problem was and many say the problem is hour long waits for the buses, CATS management say that there are not enough riders to put more buses on the line and wo n't receive any funding until more people start riding the bus consistently.
912 Alongside the `` winged primate '' theory, an accepted theory is that these creatures are a new species of fruit bat ; despite reports depicting the animal as carnivorous, and assumed to be at fault for the disappearance of many farm animals in the region.
923 Saint-Omer especially was given special attention by the French commanders as Robert failed to make the slightest precaution to conceal his destination, conducting a campaign of destruction almost in a direct line towards the French town.
926 Contrary to the beliefs and claims of Robert of Artois, there were no pro-Flemish supporters in the town and Robert 's plan of simply marching up to the gates and being admitted was thus impossible and foolhardy.
931 Some have suggested that Canadian unity was fostered -- all nine provinces were represented in the order of battle of the Canadian Corps.
932 As Pierre Berton points out in his seminal work, ` Vimy', the taking of the ridge achieved legendary status very quickly, and with it the attendant myths.
933 To some Canadians, the name Vimy Ridge remains very meaningful historically.
935 The success of the attack which had resulted from detailed planning and a variety of innovative tactics, stood in stark contrast to what had happened at the Somme only months earlier, and sealed the reputation of the Canadians as among the finest troops on the Western Front.
939 The squad, starved for news, finds out from a copy of the ` Stars and Stripes' that they are making a `` heroic stand '' in Bastogne, from their medic that the field hospital has been captured by the Germans, and from Kippton that the 101st is surrounded.
941 Since the Bavaria is one of the biggest bronze sculptures in the world, it had to be built out of four big parts and several smaller ones.
942 An apparently extinct population from Samar Island might constitute a third species, but the only known specimen has been lost.
951 Some of Beenie Man 's songs are openly anti-homosexual, with lyrics such as `` I 'm dreaming of a new Jamaica, come to execute all the gays '', in a country where sexual minority groups are under physical threat.
954 MTV had plans to include Beenie Man in their roster of performers at the 2004 MTV Video Music Awards, held in Miami, Florida, but due to a group gay and lesbian bloggers who disapproved of some of his Jamaican releases made a decade earlier -LRB- in response to highly a publicized man/boy rape case in Jamaica in which Beenie Man and other entertainers used their artistic abilities to expose the horrific case, MTV decided to exclude Beenie Man.
956 However, once the presentation is over, Jesse 's editor tells him he 's got a plane to catch that very day, and so just like in ` Before Sunrise', Celine and Jesse 's reunion is constrained by time.
957 Just like in the prequel, the characters are thus forced to make the best of what little time they have together, and this makes it easier for their conversations to become ever more personal, starting out with the usual thirty-something 's themes of work and politics and then, with ever increasing passion, approaching their love for each other, just as their time together is running out.
964 Some non-Hassidic Orthodox Jews wear a 'T ish Bekishe' at home during the Shabbos meals.
965 Many Hassidic Rebbes, mainly of Hungarian lineage, wear 'T ish Bekishes' with various colors, usually either, blue, silver, often with black.
969 One company was believed to be owed nearly ₤ 65,000.
972 When it opened, it was the most expensive hotel ever built at around US$ 1.6 billion.
978 Johnston was one of the few Senate Democrats to vote against the Budget Act of 1993, which was strongly supported by President Bill Clinton and many prominent members of the Democratic Party.
994 Beretta is known for its broad range of fire arms : side-by-side shotguns, over-and-under shotguns, hunting rifles, express rifles, assault rifles, submachine guns, lever and bolt-action rifles, single and double action revolvers and semi-automatic pistols.
996 Even now, some years after reunification, there is still talk in Germany of cultural differences between East and West Germans -LRB- colloquially ` Ossis' and ` Wessis' -RRB-, sometimes described as `` Mauer im Kopf '' -LRB- `` The wall in the head '' -RRB-.
998 Many German public figures have called these numbers `` alarming. ''.
1003 Between 1993 and 2004, the award voting panel comprised variously fans ; sportswriters and broadcasters, sports executives, and retired sportspersons, termed collectively ` experts' ; and retired sportspersons, but balloting thereafter has been exclusively by fans over the Internet from amongst choices selected by the ESPN Select Nominating Committee.
1006 The reference would seem to be to Bethels in the plural, that is to many stones like the stone in the Israelite city of Bethel which served a housing for God in Israelite belief.
1007 Betsy is usually described as having blonde or light-brown hair, and is said to be one year older than Dorothy Gale.
1012 According to the notes in the ` Anecdotes of William Hogarth', this man is William Ellis who was supposed to have been driven mad by his love for Betty.
1014 Careless, alongside many of the other notorious bawds of the early 18th century, may have inspired Mrs Cole in John Cleland 's ` Fanny Hill'.
1015 The Beverly Hills Police Department has its stake to claim in serving the city in law enforcement, included run-ins with celebrities in its history.
1017 An interesting book about the BHPD in the old days is `` Beverly Hills Is My Beat '' by long-time Police Chief Clinton H. Anderson -LRB- 1960 -RRB-.
1019 At the location of the town itself, there was in all likelihood an ancient city, probably named Karallia, which was one of the two urban centers that surrounded the lake at the time.
1026 It is believed that the sweat that poured forth from Lord Shiva 's body after the battle formed the Bhimarathi River.
1027 The Bhitarkanika Mangroves are home to 55 of India 's 58 known mangrove species.
1028 The mangroves harbor one of India 's largest populations of saltwater crocodiles, and Gahirmatha Beach, which separates the mangroves from the Bay of Bengal, is the world 's most important nesting beach for Olive Ridley Sea Turtles.
1037 Within Post-Modern Art : when something obscure and abstract references a piece of popular art within a larger project, such as the references to Plastic Man in ` Gravity 's Rainbow', this also corresponds with Bienert 's Law.
1039 ` Bierocks' are meat-filled pocket pastries originating in Eastern Europe, possibly in Germany or Russia, as the dish is very common among the Volga German community in the United States.
1044 Some variants include grated carrots.
1048 It has a yearly fete and is generally considered a safe place to live.
1049 Although it is frequently described as a colic, the pain is steady, starts rapidly and lasts at least 30 minutes and up to several hours.
1050 Many patients complain of right upper quadrant pain, right flank pain, or even mid chest pain with cholelithiasis.
1055 In 1951 he returned to Vancouver and became greatly interested in the works of Edenshaw, working to understand the symbolism of his work, much of which had been lost along with the many Haida traditions.
1061 Herrington became one of the best known gay porn stars of the late 1990s, even appearing on mainstream TV programs such as ` Love Connection' and talk-show ` Ricki Lake'.
1066 The PC version of Bioshock has several stability issues with many users complaining of random crashes after certain periods of time, crashes at specific places and audio problems regardless of the system that the game is running on.
1067 As of now, 2K Games has not announced any plans for an official patch outside of a single forum post, leaving many PC users upset as the Xbox version received a patch first despite having fewer issues.
1069 This patch is reported by many to drastically slow down the game, and sometimes even cause it to freeze.
1072 For instance, the general circulation of the atmosphere on a planetary scale broadly determines the location of large deserts or the regions subject to frequent precipitation, which, in turn, greatly determine which organisms can naturally survive in these environments.
1073 Furthermore, changes in climates, whether due to natural processes or to human interferences, may progressively modify these habitats and cause overpopulation or extinction of indigenous species.
1074 Many of the early research studies showed that BIA was quite variable and it was not regarded by many as providing an accurate measure of body composition.
1080 These instruments are generally regarded as being less accurate than those used clinically or in nutritional and medical practice.
1083 Originally bit-tech. net was designed to be a small site where people who were interested in case modding could see new ideas from the team and discuss them in the forums, due to the relatively small presence of modding at the time.
1087 Their style of music may be described as post-punk with the elements of ska, Latin American music and funk.
1088 It is often noted that Black & White copied many of the ideas first found in Doshin the Giant.
1090 It is said that his appearance bodes ill to the beholder, although not always.
1092 In some cases it has supposedly happened before close relatives to the observer die or become ill.
1093 Some people think that the spectral black dog actually exists but is the ground-moving form of a Ropen-like creature.
1096 The most likely diet would be unfortunate night-flying herring gulls and so they would only rarely come into contact with the lives of human beings.
1101 While most of the tracks on the album are from the film, a number were composed by Vangelis but were ultimately not used in the film itself.
1103 Many do not consider this to be a satisfying representation of the score.
1108 Two sequels were made -LRB- ` Blade II' & ` Blade : Trinity' -RRB- but the first film is widely considered the best of the series.
1109 Another use of the term bladelets is in reference to the shards shaped by prehistoric peoples for use in darts or other compound tools.
1111 Jefferson was reputedly unhappy with his royalties -LRB- although Williams said that Jefferson had a bank account containing as much as $ 1500 -RRB-.
1112 In 1927, when Williams moved to OKeh Records, he took Jefferson with him, and OKeh quickly recorded and released Jefferson 's `` Matchbox Blues '' backed with `` Black Snake Moan, '' which was to be his only OKeh recording, probably because of contractual obligations with Paramount.
1116 Some authorities feel the Blish Lock as employed in the Thompson did not accomplish anything in terms of actual breech locking.
1120 Although these compounds have been employed on occasion for medical purposes, their most common use is as chemical warfare agents.
1121 The main vehicle for social commentary, throughout ` Blondel', is the relationship between Fiona and Prince John : Fiona as an activist campaigning for the rights and freedoms of the 20th century, and John as a man of power who ca n't figure out why anyone could possibly be dissatisfied with the monarchy.
1125 Presumably, -LRB- although this is never explicitly stated, and it happens after the play 's end -RRB- the bride is afterwards killed as a sacrifice to restore the family 's honor.
1126 Still, in some incarnations of the play, it is suggested that the Mother allows the Bride to live based on the idea that living with the pain of her lovers' deaths is a more severe punishment than death.
1127 The director 's cut, spanning approximately 10 minutes longer than the theatrical, will give more explanation to some of the scenes.
1129 Comparing the two cuts, some scenes become quite different and give a more thorough explanation through the director 's cut.
1130 The motives of this cutting is probably a compromise the director had to make, so as to limit the length of the movie.
1131 Even though most who have seen both agree that the director 's cut is better, DVDs of the theatrical cut are still being distributed, especially in countries where the movie did not have a theatrical release.
1134 They are rarely observed in spiral galaxy cores, elliptical galaxies, or globular clusters, most of which are believed to be composed of older stars.
1135 The color is probably the most diagnostic feature of the fish, especially when alive or fresh from the water.
1142 Officer Geary was found `` not guilty '' of writing too many tickets at a public event held in a North Beach theater that featured a stripper in the role of bailiff.
1146 Livingston, considered a formidable lobbyist, was identified by Jonathan Tilove of the New Orleans Times-Picayune as supporting U.S. Representative Anh `` Joseph '' Cao.
1169 There is an ongoing debate about whether Hugo Chávez has rescued Venezuela from the corruption of the Pacto de Punto Fijo, or if he has damaged the very foundations of the nation 's democracy.
1170 Chávez was first elected on an anti-corruption platform and on promises of redistributing wealth to the poor, but Michael Shifter of Georgetown University 's School of Foreign Service says that `` despite record oil profits that are funding social spending, his initiatives have yielded only very modest gains '', and ` The Economist' reports that his policies are most vulnerable in the areas of corruption, jobs and crime.
1171 He was the second son of Duke Bolko III of Strzelce by his wife Anna, probably daughter of Duke Jan I of Oświęcim.
1172 The city is also the home of the Italian Army 's Alpini High Command -LRB- COMALP -RRB- and some of its combat and support units.
1174 21 % of the students at Washington are economically disadvantaged, 2 % enroll in special education, 31 % enroll in gifted and talent programs, and 1 % are considered `` limited English proficient. '' -.
1179 The airport is said to be partly used as a training camp by the Serbian special police units, called Žandarmerija, but also stay as a civil one to handle tourists during the season.
1184 His subsequent excavations at the site have uncovered what he claims to be a paved entrance plateau and tunnels, as well as stone blocks and ancient mortar which he has suggested once covered the structure.
1186 However, many archaeologists he named have stated they had not agreed to participate and were never at the site.
1191 These Brunswick records are widely regarded as milestone recordings of vocal jazz.
1192 Connee 's ingenious reworkings of the melodies and rhythms of popular songs, together with Glenn Miller 's hot arrangements, and first rate New York jazz musicians -LRB- including The Dorsey Brothers, Benny Goodman, Bunny Berigan, Fulton McGrath, Joe Venuti, Arthur Schutt, Eddie Lang, Joe Tarto, Manny Klein, Dick McDonough, and Carl Kress -RRB-, made these recordings unlike any others.
1193 Melodies were rearranged and slowed down, major keys were changed to minor keys -LRB- sometimes in mid-song -RRB- and rhythmic changes were par for the course.
1198 It is very curvy and has relatively high grades.
1199 It will remain in use by freight traffic, and probably partly for some passenger traffic, like Östersund-Bräcke-Langsele-KramforsAirport-Umea.
1201 It was a one of the first records for Tony Bennett in 1950 ; Bennett made a more Latin sounding recording of the song in 1952 and it was a hit.
1202 Of Samhain 's previous official releases, only the original mix of the Unholy Passion EP was not included in the Box Set ; conjecture is that the original master tapes had been lost over the years, or were erased when Danzig re-recorded the guitar and some vocal tracks to those songs in June 1987.
1223 The main heroes are n't much better than villains themselves, each with immoral and violent leanings.
1228 In the `` stone chambers '' of the Rolsbach valley, some gravesites from Hallstatt times -LRB- about 550 BC -RRB- were unearthed in 1884.
1230 It is also believed that Neanderthal people once lived nearby, but this belief awaits further discovery.
1231 Several of these games are very popular, but Yeager 's Air Combat in particular is respected as an exceptional flight simulation game with very realistic reactions to the controls.
1233 This level of quality is considered to be a direct result of the fact that it was not only sponsored by Chuck Yeager, but he actually served as an advisor during development of the game.
1236 Filters come in many types.
1237 Many use pre-made filtration media such as sheets or candles, while others use a fine powder made of, for example, diatomaceous earth, also called kieselguhr, which is introduced into the beer and recirculated past screens to form a filtration bed.
1241 He wrote many of Queen 's most famous songs and biggest hits, including `` We Will Rock You '', `` Fat Bottomed Girls '', `` Tie Your Mother Down '', `` Who Wants to Live Forever '' and `` I Want It All ''.
1252 The neighbourhood has a perhaps one of its kind 1967 EXPO style dome covering a local children 's hockey rink that made it to the top 500 architecturally significant buildings in Canada in 2002 as voted by CIRA, and, is home of the annual Ottawa Folk Festival at Britannia Park.
1257 Membership includes mapping companies, publishers, designers, academics, researchers, map curators, individual cartographers, GIS specialists and ordinary members of the public with an interest in maps.
1258 In 2005 the operational British Commando force consisted of 3 Commando Brigade Royal Marines which included 40, 42 Commando and 45 Commando Royal Marines, 29 Commando Regiment Royal Artillery, and 59 Independent Commando Squadron Royal Engineers, a logistic regiment, a naval squadron of medium helicopters, and a landing craft squadron.
1262 If anything encapsulated the NF under Tyndall and Webster it was the events of August 1977, when a large NF march specifically went through the largely non-white areas of Lewisham in South East London under an inflammatory slogan claiming that 70 % of muggers were black whilst 70 % of muggers' victims were white -LRB- these figures came courtesy of an ill-worded press statement from Chief of the Metropolitan Police Sir Kenneth Newman that was actually intended to illustrate how poor relations between the black community and the police had become, i.e. black victims of crime seldom bothered to report it -RRB-.
1263 They proved to be very successful, but with line closures continuing through the 1960s, including many in East Anglia where the type was first used, their non-standard coupling arrangements left them prone to early withdrawal, which took place during 1967-69.
1265 This is not to say that British humour has no place for visuals ; but to take a classic example, Benny Hill, whose work was quite visual indeed, was extremely popular in his day, but has long since failed to arouse much interest with British audiences.
1266 In the U.S. and France, however, he is still widely regarded as a comic genius.
1268 Notably, Douglas Hurd has since criticised the Act 's aftereffects, describing it as `` one of the less successful reforms of those years ''.
1270 Since Tony Blair became leader, the Labour Party 's broadcasting policy has generally shifted much more towards that expounded in the Act.
1271 Chisholm was a controversial public speaker who nevertheless had great conviction, and drew much cynicism within the Canadian public for comments in the mid-1940s that children should not be encouraged to believe in Santa Claus.
1273 Pinchot has appeared in several feature films, including ` Risky Business', ` Beverly Hills Cop' -LRB- and reprising his popular supporting role in ` Beverly Hills Cop III -RRB-', ` True Romance', ` Courage Under Fire' and ` It 's My Party'.
1274 Pinchot is probably best known for his role in the ABC family sitcom ` Perfect Strangers' -LRB- 1986 -- 1993 -RRB- as Balki Bartokomous from the -LRB- fictional -RRB- island of Mypos.
1276 He was nominated for an Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series in 1987 for this role.
1281 It is not closely related to either true Old World Warblers or the New World Warblers, but belongs rather to the Corvida parvorder comprising many tropical and Australian passerines, as well as crows.
1289 In the ` Studio di Fonologia Musicale', with the help of sound technician Marino Zuccheri, he wrote some of the most impressive electroacoustic works of his time : ` Musica su due dimensioni' -LRB- ` Music on two dimensions', 1958 -RRB- for flute and magnetic tape, ` Notturno' -LRB- 1956 -RRB- and ` Continuo' -LRB- 1958 -RRB- both for magnetic tape.
1292 This discovery in the Southern Hemisphere helps to clarify that the dromaeosaur family was more widely dispersed around the world than previously thought.
1293 Scientists now think that dromaeosaurs date back to Jurassic times, when all the continents were much closer together.
1297 One of the most influential Bulgarian educational centres in Thrace, it was founded in 1891 in Ottoman Adrianople and existed until 1913.
1298 Among the initiators, principals and teachers at the high school were noted Bulgarian intellectuals, scientists, and public figures of the Bulgarian revolutionary movement and politics of the early 20th century.
1303 Then in the fourth section, some other examples will be given.
1305 In 1999, she received an official commendation from the Maine State Legislature in recognition of the `` tremendous contribution '' made in her writings about Maine Indian women, in particular Penobscot dancer Molly Spotted Elk.
1306 The Maine Historical Society selected this acclaimed biography as one of the one hundred most `` notable '' books written in or about Maine -LRB- 2000 -RRB-.
1318 The term is used to distinguish between the objects a developer is creating or using related to the domain and all the other types of object he or she may be working with such as user interface widgets and database objects such as tables or rows.
1322 Their design varies from place to place, but they are usually covered by some type of roof to offer shelter.
1324 The conflicts between his love interest and his family drove most of the plots during the short time on the air.
1327 During his tenure at AT&T, some say his series of missteps and shortsightedness nearly ran the company into the ground.
1329 Montreal 's anchor, Dennis Trudeau retired shortly before the launch of ` CBC News at Six', having hosted the local bulletins for many years.
1331 The new Management Guidelines are composed of Maturity Models, to help determine the stages and expectation levels of control and compare them against industry norms ; Critical Success Factors, to identify the most important actions for achieving control over the IT processes ; Key Goal Indicators, to define target levels of performance ; and Key Performance Indicators, to measure whether an IT control process is meeting its objective.
1337 In season 4, there were hints at some sort of relationship with Special Agent Peter Elliot.
1341 Duquesne 's character has also been called unrealistic at times, especially since she commonly works in high heels.
1343 A tough personality to figure out, Calleigh is often bubbly and happy, then moments later deathly serious and blunt, likely very intimidating to most men.
1347 The city 's economy is mainly based on tourism, as most of the cities situated in the called Regiao dos Lagos -LRB- Lake 's Region -RRB-.
1350 It is widely known for its role in The Great Mississippi Flood of 1927.
1352 However, this effort became less than fruitful when the levee system was breached in several other areas preventing the waters from threatening the city.
1355 Although they can make great companion parrots for the right person, due to their extremely engaging and funny personalities, some individuals can be very hot-tempered.
1356 Caiques ordinarily respond well to homes in which some time is devoted to playing with them each day, and like all pet birds, they need to be kept in a bird-safe environment.
1358 Constituency and management area names have many elements in common, and the management areas had the boundaries of former districts of the Highland region, as abolished in 1996, namely Caithness, Sutherland, Ross and Cromarty, Skye and Lochalsh, Inverness, Nairn, Lochaber and Badenoch and Strathspey.
1359 The early history of the parish dates back to the time of the Spanish occupation of Louisiana, when, in 1797, Jose M. Mora was granted a large tract of land between the Rio Hondo -LRB- now Calcasieu -RRB- and the Sabine River, known for years as the `` Neutral Strip ''.
1365 It might seem that a vernier caliper can not get out of calibration but a drop or knock can be enough.
1367 Many callers spend time inventing their own unique patter or variants on common patter.
1372 His paternal uncle reigned as Ariaramnes of Persia and his first cousin as Arsames of Persia.
1380 Cameron Highlands is still home to many tea plantations, being Malaysia 's largest tea-producing region.
1381 With its many farms the area is also known as a major supplier of legumes and vegetables to both Malaysia and Singapore, and is one of Malaysia 's prime tourist destinations.
1384 Aqualibrium replaced the old Campbeltown swimming pool, which closed 7 years ago due to safety reasons, and houses Campbeltown 's library -LRB- with the old building being the museum only -RRB-, swimming pool, gym, conference centre and ` Mussel Ebb' Cafe.
1388 The road allowed people to cycle out to Camps Bay which acquired some poularity as a picnic site.
1394 Although many Vietnamese regarded Dong Khanh as a French puppet king, not all did.
1395 One of the most important Vietnamese leaders, Prince Hoang Ke Viem, who had been fighting the French for several years in Tonkin, gave his allegiance to Dong Khanh.
1398 Each year the council receives some 16,000 grant requests, which are reviewed by panels of artists set up by each division of the council.
1399 In 2006-07, the Council awarded some 6,000 grants to artists and arts organizations and made payments to more than 15,400 authors through the Public Lending Right Commission.
1401 ` Canada -- United States relations' covers more than two centuries, marked by a shared British colonial heritage, conflict during the early years of the U.S., and the eventual development of one of the most successful international relationships in the modern world.
1411 Romay 's long term as the owner of Canal 9 made him one of the most powerful figures in Argentine media, earning him the nickname of `` the Television Czar ''.
1414 In practice, brain tumors are generally considered to be malignant due to the delicate and poorly regenerative nature of neurons and restriction of the brain to the finite space of the cranium which does not allow tumor growth devoid of collateral damage to brain parenchyma.
1430 It can happen relatively easily but can be avoided by very carefully inserting a new card and feeling for unusual resistance, excessive force is the primary cause but may also be due to the contact surface design of some CF cards.
1432 When using third party lenses, most notably older Sigma lenses, there may be a compatibility issue.
1433 Reports abound of people receiving `` Err99 '' errors when using such lenses.
1435 Using the problematic lens wide open is sometimes possible.
1441 There are green forests and high mountains like near Kupres, a city where many tourists -LRB- mostly from Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina -RRB- go to ski in the winter.
1442 There are some activities during school hours also.
1448 Most expert agree that many Governors do n't use power of clemency because for public relations reasons.
1449 But not everything is pink for the young couple and they have to survive, among other things, opposition by ` Miguel Angel' 's parents, ` Horacio' -LRB- Humberto Garcia -RRB- and ` Rebecca' -LRB- Chony Fuentes -RRB- ; ` Horacio '' s declining mental health that makes him become more and more dangerous, the obsessive passion that evil ` Santa Ortigosa' -LRB- ` Miguel Angel' 's ex, played by Gigi Zancheta -RRB- feels for ` Miguel Angel', a partnership that ` Horacio' creates with two drug dealers who end up murdered by him' when he finds out they are using him, the revelation that ` Estrellita '' s mother was killed by a younger ` Horacio' because she left him for the man who would become ` Estrellita '' s father and the kidnapping by ` Horacio' of ` Miguel Angel' and ` Estrellita '' s boy twins once ` Miguel Angel' and ` Estrellita' had married and begun a family.
1453 Carbofuran has one of the highest acute toxicities to humans of any insecticide widely used on field crops -LRB- only aldicarb and parathion are more toxic -RRB-.
1456 Since its toxic effects are due to its activity as a cholinesterase inhibitor it is considered a neurotoxic pesticide.
1460 Several radioactive substances are considered carcinogens, but their carcinogenic activity is attributed to the radiation, for example gamma rays or alpha particles, which they emit.
1466 The mascot had been the Trojans for some time until the early 1990s when the switch was made.
1471 He is regarded as one of the greatest directors in cinema.
1473 In spite of this, he produced some of the most enduring classics of international cinema.
1476 In his ` Problems of Dostoevsky 's Poetics' -LRB- 1929 -RRB- and ` Rabelais and His World' -LRB- 1965 -RRB-, Bakhtin likens the carnivalesque in literature to the type of activity that often takes place in the carnivals of popular culture.
1479 Smillie was so successful as a holiday reporter, that stints followed on BBC One for the ` Holiday' programme.
1481 All is revealed when Granny -LRB- who has helped Mightily Oats to Überwald by a process of being carried by him -RRB- tells them that - far from turning her into a Vampire, they have, instead, been ` Weatherwaxed', caused by the sharing of their blood with her.
1483 They are even more horrified when they find out that Igor has re-awakened the old Count Magpyre -LRB- having gone into his crypt and spilled a drop of blood on the old Count 's ashes -RRB- and that the people of Überwald would prefer the old Count to their new, modern type of vampirism.
1484 The Magpyres are attacked -LRB- and presumably killed - though probably not permanently -RRB- by the citizens of Überwald and the witches return to Lancre.
1486 He took exclusive leadership of the Savoy Hotel Orpheans, which recorded hundreds of popular songs -LRB- many of which were sung by Anne Lenner -RRB- between June 1932 and his death in London at the early age of 51.
1487 Since 1988, the Chinese government has authorized direct village elections to help maintain social and political order in the context of rapid economic reforms.
1495 Claiming that the producers gave her one night to consider her options, she walked out the following morning.
1496 She was recently voted one of the most memorable contestants by AOL entertainment Cassandra made an appearance in ` The Cycle 5 Reunion', ` America 's Next Top Model : Where the Girls Are', and ` America 's Next top Model : Exposed'.
1499 The local economy is mainly based on the production of cereals and on the activity of numerous chemical and textile industries.
1505 The Welsh placename -LRB- shortened from ` Castell Fuwch' -RRB- means `` Cow castle '', and is perhaps a mocking name for an abandoned fortification, inhabited only by cows.
1508 There are a few English placenames in the southern part of the parish, but there is no evidence to suggest large-scale English colonisation in the medieval period, and the parish has always been essentially Welsh-speaking.
1517 With a moving camera, she also took a series of still photographs -LRB- such as ` Descent : HQ5 : 1/2s, 4.7 °, Omm 40mph' -RRB-, resulting in images of vertical streaks and blurred patches of colour.
1525 Among his records the following ought to be mentioned : Sila Godoy in concert, recorded in New York, USA, in 1982 ; Sila Godoy, recorded in Australia, in 1983 ; Aranjuez and Madrigal, two volumes on cassettes, which are gatherings from his two previous recordings, in 1994 ; The Music of Agustin Barrios Mangore and Jose Asuncion Flores, a compact disc with a gathering of his best recordings in 1994.
1526 He never took pupils ; he probably lacked the patience - his irascible temper was legendary, though he mellowed a lttle with age and the desire to promote use of antique instruments.
1529 The most popular couple who were not eliminated would have won the ` Best in Series'.
1532 The rocks exposed by coastal erosion in North Anglesey belong mainly to what geologists call the Mona Complex, which is among the oldest rock units seen in Wales.
1533 It underlies, and is therefore older than the slates of the North Wales quarrying industry, but is probably not very much older in geological terms.
1534 Since the remains of fossilized remains have been found in the rocks, it is does not predate the origins of life and is therefore probably about 600 million years old.
1535 Other illustrious people from this small village are : Diego de Irusta, who participated in the Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa ; the abbots of the Collegiate church of Cenarruza ; Diego and Bernardino de Irusta ; the general Francisco de Longa, hero of the Spanish Independence War ; and the general Pedro de Zubiaur.
1536 Critics of television broadcast media throughout the latter half of the 20th century on into the 21st have expressed their concerns regarding the filtration of content being offered to citizens of the United States through the modern-day journalism platform.
1537 They argue that media conglomerates within the U.S. are responsible for painting a very limited/pointed picture of U.S. government involvement throughout the world, and further argue that this causes uninformed political support by U.S. citizens.
1538 In addition, certain corporations have been accused of paying news channels to have their products displayed in a positive light, while attacking direct competitors and products that could compete with the company 's products.
1541 The flowers of ` Centaurea tchihatcheffii' are most attractive as the pale or dark pinkish-red marginal florets -LRB- the most frequent colour form -RRB- take on an iridescent shimmer in the sun and wind, hence the vernacular name Yanardoner, meaning ` iridescent flower'.
1543 The peak flowering period is mid-May and in earlier years it was sold in some quantity by street florists in Ankara.
1546 The species is of taxonomic interest as it has some rather unusual and unique features not existing in any other ` Centaurea'.
1551 The Anarchy is expected to compete for talent and fans with Orlando 's other women 's football team, the Independent Women 's Football League 's Orlando Mayhem.
1553 Residents from the surrounding regions may not talk about being ` in' Central Otago or going ` to' Central Otago - instead referring to being or going `` up Central '' -LRB- this usage is mainly limited to residents of Canterbury, Otago and Southland -RRB-.
1555 The Certificate of Merit was considered a single decoration for one-time issuance only.
1561 Paraguay had little trouble in mobilizing their troops, some battles being fought at merely a few kilometers from Asunción, whilst the majority of Bolivian soldiers came from the western highlands, some eight hundred kilometers away and with little or no logistic support.
1562 The term is also used in a civilian management context describing comparable hierarchical structures of authority.
1566 Some associate 's and bachelor 's degrees, as well as certificates, can be obtained through online courses.
1569 Section III of the Act introduced the right of the Chancery judges to call a jury to assess the amount of damages to be awarded and `` any question of fact arising in a suit or proceeding ''.
1572 In addition, Thiru Vazhappally temple is famous for two dhwajasthabom -LRB- Flag Mast -RRB- and daru silpam works -LRB- wood carvings -RRB-.
1575 Thanthries of the temple are in three mana -LRB- illom -RRB- are Kuzhikattillom, Parampooru and Memana illoms.
1576 After 1983 the band experimented with other styles, alienating many of its original fans.
1578 For a dynamical system to be classified as chaotic, most scientists will agree that it must have the following properties :.
1579 Characteristic numbers solve the oriented and unoriented bordism questions : two manifolds are -LRB- respectively oriented or unoriented -RRB- cobordant if and only if their characteristic numbers are equal.
1584 After leaving the State Department, he again rejoined his old partners at the Hughes firm, which included his son and future United States Solicitor General Charles E. Hughes, Jr., and was one of the nation 's most sought-after advocates.
1588 He was one of the co-founders in 1927 of the National Conference on Christians and Jews, now known as the National Conference for Community and Justice -LRB- NCCJ -RRB-, along with S. Parkes Cadman and others, to oppose the Ku Klux Klan, anti-Catholicism, and anti-Semitism in the 1920s and 1930s.
1591 Thus duke Charles was one of the greatest losers in those struggles of the mighty, the small who was left crushed.
1598 Montholon had to spend' many years in Belgium ; and in 1840 acted as `` chief of staff '' in the absurd `` expedition '' conducted by Louis Napoleon from London to Boulogne.
1601 The daughter of a cavalry captain of the Royal court, Bengt Edvard Eckerman, and the journalist Catharina Ahlgren, she was in the custody of her father after her parents divorce and was described as more or less an orphan.
1603 Originally hired as a member of the choir, she soon rose to be one of the more popular actors when she had to replace Elisabeth Olin as Mechtild in ` Birger jarl' by Gyllenborg and Adlerbeth, a part in which she made success, and she was given a contract in 1776.
1609 Kristofer Straub 's other webcomic, in which Vaporware has become a recurring character.
1615 Today there are several mid-size retail outlets in the Trade Center -LRB- selling food, electronic devices -RRB-, with the large portion of the space occupied by small outlets -LRB- clothes, DIY, home appliances and others -RRB-.
1617 ` Cheryl Rae Tiegs' -LRB- born September 25 1947 in Breckenridge, Minnesota -RRB- is sometimes considered to be the first modern American supermodel.
1618 Her popularity signaled the rise of tall models, as she stands 5' 10 '' to 5' 11 '' in height.
1636 It is, however, readily moveable and is frequently used for concerts of baroque music in the nave.
1641 Unfortunately, this apparently misses his heart, and the struggle continues before Tyler hands Andy his pocket knife : Andy cuts Chucky 's other hand off and causes him to get flipped off the pile of skulls and into a giant fan, which dices him into numerous pieces, killing him.
1645 Some people consider vegetarian chili to be a spicy vegetable stew, and not authentic chili.
1646 Up to now, China has signed governmental space cooperation agreements with Brazil, Chile, France, Germany, India, Italy, Pakistan, Russia, Ukraine, the United Kingdom, the United States and some other countries.
1649 Ben Elton 's 1990 television show ` The Man from Auntie' featured several chinface performances.
1652 Somerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.
1656 Some common diseases affecting/involving the cartilage are listed below.
1663 Two of his books have meet with controversy : `` Happy to be Nappy, '' written by bell hooks and his own `` Arlene Sardine. ''.
1674 Many Christian democrats thought it would be better for the Christian Democratic Union to participate in elections without any alliance.
1675 But the party united one more time with governmental alliance Our Ukraine, although it does n't have ministries in Yulia Tymoshenko 's nor in Yuri Yekhanurov 's governments.
1682 At and -LRB- at the time -RRB-, Cecil was considered too small to be a collegiate star and thus was not offered a scholarship out of high school.
1684 As well as being split into geographical groups, church life is also broken down into ministries that are appropriate to life stages or demographics, such as Youth, Students, Internationals, New Horizons -LRB- for seniors -RRB- and Lighthouse -LRB- adults with learning difficulties -RRB-.
1685 Some of these ministries run their own small groups outside of the zone structure.
1687 Father Martin, along with some other Dominican fathers began to construct a chapel on the northeast corner of 65th Street.
1696 One major reason to use inlets is that all the inlets of a procedure are guaranteed to operate atomically with regards to each other and to the parent procedure, thus avoiding the bugs that could occur if the multiple returning procedures tried to update the same variables in the parent frame at the same time.
1698 It has been suggested by some that this motto and its corollaries were intended to be motivating and not taken in a literal sense.
1699 Critics replied that this was beyond the bounds of acceptable, literal or not.
1703 The best-known depiction of Cambodia during the Khmer Rouge years, 1984 's ` The Killing Fields', starring the Cambodian actor Haing S. Ngor as journalist Dith Pran, was actually made in neighboring Thailand.
1704 Held in Mumbai on the 20th -- 21st November 2009, the commercial capital of India and home to the world 's most prolific film industry, Cinex Asia provides significant profiling and brand building opportunities to both domestic and international firms, as well as to consumer brands seeking to extend their reach within the lucrative Indian film, television and media industries.
1705 At the other extreme, very low density arrangements of rigidly packed circles have been identified.
1709 This switch was said to be due to a stream of losses stemming from the rapid decline of flat-panel TV prices, and possibly due to the strong call for Schoonover 's removal from activist shareholder Mark Wattles.
1711 Dubbed `` Queen of the citadels '' -LRB- ` Reine des citadelles' -RRB- by Vauban, it is one of the most notable citadels designed by Vauban.
1713 It was famous ` pré carré' -LRB- `` square field '' -RRB-, conceived by Vauban comprising 28 fortified cities.
1716 The Trent End was the most recent stand to be rebuilt -- in time for Euro 96, the European Football Championships.
1723 ` Clan Wolf' of the fictional universe of BattleTech is one of the most important Clans.
1724 The best known of her books are ` The Farmer 's Year' -LRB- 1933 ; a calendar of English husbandry -RRB-, ` Four Hedges - A Gardener 's Chronicle' -LRB- 1935 ; the development of a garden from a meadow she had bought in the Chilterns -RRB- and ` Tempestuous Petticoat ; The story of an invincible Edwardian' -LRB- 1948 ; describing her childhood and her bohemian mother -RRB-.
1728 In general, if large energies and large objects -LRB- relative to the size and energy levels of an electron -RRB- are considered in quantum mechanics, the result will appear to obey classical mechanics.
1737 This marvelous 1914 mansion, with its spacious rooms, tiny alcoves and third-floor ballroom, holds the story of Cle Elum 's first successful banker and his family.
1745 They also use many turn of the century recipes to produce unusually delicious baked goods.
1746 It is well-known to travelers and many stop by to purchase the tasty bread and pastries.
1751 -LSB- MaMa Vallone 's -RSB- - Located at 302 West First Street, it has been open since 1986, initially owned/operated by Master Chef Joe Vallone, who is responsible for many of the recipes.
1753 Currently owned and operated by longtime employees Kevin Mullin and Kelly Rowe, the restaurant has thrived even more with many new specials and dishes, this is a main destination stop for many in the state of WA for great Italian Cuisine and Steaks.
1762 The area -LRB- including Hartlepool -RRB- is known as ` Teesside' for some purposes, and with Darlington the term Tees Valley is becoming more popular in the press and with local government, although it continues to be generally unused by the actual residents of this area.
1763 He has also been an artist in advertising campaigns for numerous large organizations and corporations - including Greenpeace and Ikea.
1766 The idea of building a bridge across the Avon Gorge originated in 1753, with a bequest in the will of Bristolian merchant William Vick, who left ₤ 1,000 invested with instructions that when the interest had accumulated to ₤ 10,000, it should be used for the purpose of building a stone bridge between Clifton Down -LRB- which was in Gloucestershire, outside the City of Bristol, until the 1830s -RRB- and Leigh Woods -LRB- then in Somerset -RRB-.
1769 Northern Ireland has a latitude between 54 ° N and 56 ° N and winters are much milder and wetter than many other cities on this latitude, such as Moscow, Omsk or Novosibirsk.
1770 However, summers are generally cooler and wetter than other cities along a similar latitude.
1775 It runs generally southwest-northeast, with numerous curves.
1786 The Central Otago Gold Rush began in 1861, and it was this influx of people that led to the establishment of many of the river towns that still exist today, such as Alexandra, Clyde, and Cromwell.
1787 Compared to many of the other California oil fields, Coalinga is large and spread out, but contains a few areas of concentrated development around the richer pools.
1789 The oil field is mainly on the high ground around the valley, with the western part of the semicircle at the base of the Alcalde Hills, and the eastern part on the long and low Anticline Ridge, which separates Pleasant Valley and Coalinga from Interstate 5 and the main part of the San Joaquin Valley.
1796 Henderson and colleagues -LRB- 1995 -RRB- considered ` C. cupularis' to be a synonym of ` Coccothrinax miraguama'.
1797 An argument is ` cogent' if and only if the truth of the argument 's premises would render the truth of the conclusion probable -LRB- i.e., the argument is ` strong' -RRB-, and the argument 's premises are, in fact, true.
1798 Cogency can be considered inductive logic 's analogue to deductive logic 's `` soundness. ''.
1801 A possible reason for this is that kappa is, under certain conditions, equivalent to the intraclass correlation coefficient.
1804 Around this time, Cold recorded the soundtrack for the video game ` Psi-Ops : The Mindgate Conspiracy' featuring the songs `` With My Mind '', `` Came All the Way '', `` Just Got Wicked -LRB- Chris Vrenna Remix -RRB- '', and `` Go Away -LRB- Chris Vrenna Eye Socket Remix -RRB- '' and embarked on a short tour with Sevendust in support of `` With My Mind '', the single released from the CD.
1806 During the Jewish High Holidays, religious services are held in the school, and are usually attended by students, their families and alumni.
1809 She originally said that she would work with Farrell to ensure that it remained private, but Farrell said that Narain, along with Schmidt, was trying to release it in order to damage his career and `` make money out of it '', which Nicole denies.
1813 However, the airport 's fire units stay on Airport Authority property most of the time, and are housed in an yet another fire station that is on the Airport Authority 's property.
1817 The most well-known is `` seasonal '' color analysis, which places individual coloring into four general categories : Winter, Spring, Summer and Autumn.
1819 Some clues that a person has cool coloring might include ash tones in the hair, grey-blue eyes and pinkish undertones to the skin.
1821 Some signs of warm coloring are red or golden hair, golden brown eyes and golden undertones to the skin.
1825 Most colorectal cancers should be preventable, through increased surveillance, improved lifestyle, and, probably, the use of dietary chemopreventative agents.
1830 In 1973, the Kilbrandon Commission on the Constitution stated that the contribution should be considered a voluntary payment.
1831 Pol Pot, leader of the Khmer Rouge regime, suppressed Cambodia 's Buddhist religion : monks were defrocked ; temples and artifacts, including statues of Buddha, were destroyed ; and people praying or expressing other religious sentiments were often killed.
1832 The Christian and Muslim communities were among the most persecuted, as well.
1835 Many of those who refused were killed.
1843 Mission Center Presidents report to a field Apostle who supervises several mission centers in one of eleven mission fields.
1844 At the 2007 World Conference, a member holding the priesthood office of Seventy was teamed with each of the Apostles as follows : Apostle Linda L. Booth and Seventy Karin Peter in the Southern USA Mission Field ; Apostle Andrew Bolton and Seventy Sam Kumar in the Asia Mission Field ; Apostle Bunda C. Chibwe and Tanoh Assoi in the Africa and Haiti Mission Field ; Apostle Stassi D. Cramm and Seventy John Wight in the Central and Michigan USA Mission Field ; Apostle Mary Jacks Dynes and Seventy Kris Judd in the Canada/North Central -LRB- USA -RRB- Mission Field ; Apostle Ronald D. Harmon Jr. and Seventy Larry McGuire in the East Central USA Mission Field ; Apostle Dale E. Luffman and Robin Linkhart in the West Central USA Mission Field ; Apostle Rick W. Maupin and Seventy Ruben Landeros in the Caribbean, Mexico and Texas USA Mission Field ; Apostle Carlos Enrique Mejia and Seventy Bob Kyser in the Central and South America Mission Field ; Apostle Susan D. Skoor and Seventy Gina Norton in the Pacific Mission Field ; and Apostle Leonard M. Young and Seventy Richard James in the North Atlantic -LRB- Europe/USA -RRB- Mission Field.
1846 Some form of risk equalization also often exists in a community rated system.
1856 Concepción was the home of the Real Audiencia from 1565 to 1575, the most important government organization during Spanish colonial times.
1860 The tribe is now considered extinct.
1861 Some members of the present-day Catawba and other tribes of the Carolinas may be genetically descended from the Congaree.
1863 At his death, Conn 's lands and family were in turmoil ; however, at the peak of his lengthy reign, he was the most powerful King of the Irish, and later Lord in Ireland.
1868 She played a major behind the scenes supportive role to her husband 's progressive voice as a Vancouver city councillor and champion of the people.
1870 ` Consider Her Ways' is a science fiction novella by John Wyndham, regarded by some as his best novella or short story.
1871 It was published as part of a collection with some short stories called ` Consider Her Ways and Others'.
1873 One of the aircraft was diverted to the US Navy for trials, and four other generally similar aircraft were delivered to Siam in 1928.
1878 It was said that she was exceedingly beautiful and drew his favor to the exclusion of all other consorts, and that after her entry into the palace, the other consorts were rarely able to have sexual relations with him.
1880 The principles of Basic Structure and liberal interpretation of Fundamental Rights are well discussed in famous cases like - Keshvanand Bharti, Maneka Gandhi, Maneka Gandhi Case -LRB- AIR 1978 SC 597 -RRB- Minerva Mills, Bonded Labour, Bhopal Gas tragedy case etc..
1895 However, some films incorporate cutting to continuity into a more complex classical cutting technique, one which also tries to show psychological continuity of shots.
1898 The continuity of the time variable, in connection with the law of density of real numbers, means that the signal value can be found at any arbitrary point in time.
1901 If the voices always move by the same intervals -LRB- in opposite directions -RRB- they are said to be in ` strict contrary motion'.
1908 This fallacy is similar to the slippery slope, where the opposition claims that if a restricted action under debate is allowed, such as allowing people with glaucoma to use medical marijuana, then the action will by stages become acceptable in general, such as eventually everyone being allowed to use marijuana.
1910 However, a key difference between the two is the point and position being argued.
1918 Coordinates are typically named after the system used to assign them ; thus one says `` the Cartesian coordinates of a point ` p' '' to mean `` the coordinates assigned to ` p' by a Cartesian coordinate system ''.
1919 Copionodontines are remarkably primitive in body form, and lack many of the synapomorphies that were previously used to diagnose the family Trichomycteridae.
1920 There is little doubt that the Copionodontinae forms a monophyletic group, diagnosed by several unambiguous synapomorphies, including a unique dentition composed of spatulate teeth not seen anywhere else in the Trichomycteridae.
1922 The department is famous for its Pre-Columbian archaeological site at Copán, one of the greatest cities of the Maya civilization.
1924 Cornish surnames for ordinary people emerge in the Middle Ages, although the nobility probably had surnames much earlier on.
1928 Intellectual property protection is seen as an investment, this is a service some consultancies may also advise on.
1939 Next to the iconic Master Chief, Cortana is the next best symbol of the game series ; the character was replicated twice for action figures preceding the release of ` Halo 2' and ` Halo 3' and was also featured in the heavy marketing preceding the third game 's release.
1940 She has been recognized both for her sex appeal and her believability and depth as a character ; Cortana was rated as one of the most `` disturbingly sexual game characters '', while also being ranked as one of the greatest female characters in video games.
1955 One of the most notable elements of ` Cowboy Bebop' is its music.
1959 They have been embraced and disowned with equal fervour by various metal communities, and their particular subgenre has provoked a great deal of discussion.
1960 The band 's sound evolved from black metal to a cleaner and more `` produced '' amalgam of gothic metal, symphonic black metal and other extreme metal styles, while their lyrical themes and imagery are heavily influenced by gothic literature, poetry, mythology and horror films.
1961 The band have successfully broken free of their original niche by courting mainstream publicity -LRB- often to the chagrin of its early fanbase -RRB-, and this increased accessibility has brought coverage by the likes of ` Kerrang !' and MTV, frequent main stage appearances at major festivals such as Ozzfest and Download, and in turn a more `` commercial '' image.
1962 They have sometimes been perceived as satanic by casual observers, although their outright lyrical references to satanism are few and far between, and use of satanic imagery has arguably always had more to do with the shock value than any seriously-held beliefs.
1963 According to ` Metal Hammer' magazine, they are the most successful British metal band since Iron Maiden.
1964 The increasingly theatrical stage shows of the 1997 European tour helped keep Cradle in the public eye, as did a burgeoning line of controversial merchandise ; not least the notorious t-shirt depicting a masturbating nun on the front and the slogan `` Jesus is a cunt '' in large letters on the back.
1965 A handful of fans have faced court appearances and fines for wearing the shirt in public, and some band members themselves attracted a certain amount of hostile attention when they wore similar `` I Love Satan '' shirts to the Vatican.
1972 A widely quoted study by two Cornell University psychologists, Justin Kruger and David Dunning, is often thought to bear directly upon a striking and virtually universal characteristic of cranks : they simultaneously overestimate their own knowledge and ability and underestimate that of other persons, including that of acknowledged experts in the field.
1973 Crawford Square is a sort of crows' nest where racially diverse strains of human beings have found homes.
1975 It is perhaps the most ethnically and socially diverse new housing development in the city of Pittsburgh.
1981 Their origin is a matter of great controversy.
1982 Some regard them as descendants of Karaite Jews who settled in Crimea and adopted a form of the Kypchak tongue -LRB- see Karaim language -RRB-.
1984 Today many Crimean Karaites deny Israelite origins and consider themselves to be descendants of the Khazars.
1985 Virtually all scholars of Khazar history, however, agree that the Judaism of the Khazars was Rabbinical in nature.
1986 Some modern Karaims seek to distance themselves from being identified as Jews, emphasizing what they view as their Turkic heritage and claiming that they are Turkic practitioners of a `` Mosaic religion '' separate and distinct from Judaism.
1987 On the other hand, many scholars state that the phenomenon of claiming a distinct identity apart from the Jewish people appears to be no older than the nineteenth century, when it appeared under the influence of such leaders as Avraham Firkovich and Sima Babovich as a means of escaping anti-Semitism.
1988 In addition, Karaite works written before that time strongly suggest that Crimean Karaites previously considered themselves Jews -LRB- See Yitzhak of Troki 's `` Hizzuk Emunah '' or -RRB-.
1989 Soprano Cristina Radu is the winner of several national and international competitions : First Prize in the International Competition „ Joseph Schmidt '', Romania -LRB- 2007 -RRB-, Premier prix de Finaliste in `` Verviers International Singing Competition '' -- Belgium -LRB- 2005 -RRB-, Great Award in the National Competition `` Mihail Jora '', Romania -LRB- 2001 -RRB-, Second Prize and the Special prize of the Jury at the National Competition „ Martian Negrea '', Romania -LRB- 2002 -RRB-, The Prize of the Union of Romanian Composers and Musicologist at „ The National Competition of Romanian Song '', Romania -LRB- 2003 -RRB-, The Prize of the Foundation `` Fratii bucovineni Sarghie '', The National University of Bucharest, Romania -LRB- 2003 -RRB-.
1990 Daniel Brandt, Google 's most persistent and dedicated critic, discovered in 2002 that Google placed a cookie on each user 's computer, which can be used to track that person 's search history, and that the cookie was not set to expire until 2038.
1992 While there is no evidence that Google turns over information to the FBI or the NSA, the value of what Google gathers about users every time they perform a search, Brandt holds, is simply too alluring to keep away from the government 's eyes.
2005 Jones was an apprentice to Frank Lloyd Wright and followed many of Wright 's design principles.
2008 Some fitness professionals say Crossfit workouts are so intense that participants risk injury.
2011 The main structure of the church is estimated to have been built in late 1200AD, most likely by Normans.
2014 An interesting variation of the Cuba Libre popular in the West Indies is a `` Hot '' Cuba Libre which includes a splash of Caribbean hot sauce -LRB- e.g. Capt 'n Sleepy 's Quintessential Habanero, or Matouk 's -RRB-.
2018 The commission immediately announced a series of measures which included a tightening of the travel embargo to the island, a crackdown on illegal cash transfers, and a more robust information campaign aimed at Cuba.
2022 Castro has insisted that, in spite of the formation of the Commission, Cuba is itself `` in transition : to socialism -LSB- and -RSB- to communism '' and that it is `` ridiculous for the U.S. to threaten Cuba now ''.
2025 Before we leave the versatile coconut, we 'd be remiss not to mention that every single part of the coconut has some use : the dried husk for ornamental arts and for getting the fire going in a bar-b-cue ; the water as a refreshing beverage or as a mixer with alcoholic drinks ; the meat grated for its milk for uses as described above, or in other preparations, like the distinctive coconut-flavored taste of Kriol bread and bun.
2029 Like coconut pie and tarts, coconut crust -LRB- the grated coconut is sweetened with sugar and baked in a flour crust folded over like a patty -RRB-, tablata, which is the grated coconut meat mixed with thin ginger slices, sugar and water, baked and cut into squares ; there is also the version called cut-o-brute, which is made of chunks of coconut instead of the grated pieces ; and then there is trifle, made with half green grated coconut, milk, flour, sugar, eggs, lemon essence, margarine and baking powder -LRB- think of it as coconut cake -RRB-, and coconut fudge and coconut ice cream to mention just some of the delicious coconut-based desserts.
2033 With a masterful blend of fact and fiction, The Court-Martial of George Armstrong Custer tells us what might have happened at that trial as it brings to life the most exciting period in the history of the American West.
2036 In Harry Turtledove 's Timeline-191 alternate history novels, Custer was not killed at the Little Bighorn, and became a Colonel in Kansas by 1881, chasing Indians and then doing battle with rebel Mormons in Utah Territory and an Anglo-Canadian column invading Montana in the Second Mexican War, becoming a war hero.
2039 In the collection of short alternate history stories ` Drakas !', Custer, the famed Yankee general known for `` Custer 's Last Stand '' became persona non grata after refusing to lead troops against apparently overwhelming Indian forces.
2043 Perhaps better known to a contemporary audience is the soap opera ` Neighbours', which presents a microcosm of suburban Australian life.
2044 Other contemporary television shows set in Melbourne include ` Stingers' -LRB- an undercover police drama staring Peter Phelps -RRB-, ` The Secret Life of Us', ` Kath and Kim', ` Prisoner' -LRB- known as ` Prisoner : Cell Block H' for US and UK broadcasts -RRB-, ` Halifax FP', and ` MDA'.
2045 American anthropologist Leslie White used the term `` culturology '' for his scientific studies of culture, which he defined as `` the field of science which studies and interprets the distinct order of phenomena termed culture and presented in a series of essays `` The Science of Culture ''.
2056 This connection is emphasized by references to related characters appearing in some characters dialogue - crewmembers swear '' ` by Korvac 's mother' '' and also '' ` thank Korvac' '' for a lucky escape.
2057 Since the world of computers is ever-growing and still largely unexplored, countries new to the cyber-world produce young computer scientists usually interested in `` having fun ''.
2061 It has issued contracts for high-leveled research in electronic security to nations such as Greece and Israel, to help protect against more serious and dangerous attacks.
2069 The ` B.II' was generally similar, but was intended principally as a trainer aircraft.
2070 Some of these machines were fitted with the more powerful Mercedes D.II engine.
2071 Historically, like DOM, the event models used by various web browsers had some significant differences.
2082 Dalpatram was an authority on meters and wrote a treatise, ` Pingal' -LRB- `` Prosody '' -RRB-, used by scholars as a sourcebook for many decades.
2087 In some versions, Lynceus later killed Danaus as revenge for the death of his brothers.
2089 Not realizing that a NFL owner would be so scrutinized, he was stung by media criticism of him, which began when he fired 25 or so Redskins employees within days of buying the team, some with 20 years-plus of service.
2090 ` Daniel w. `` Dan '' Snyder' -LRB- born 1964 or 1965 -RRB- is the current owner of the Washington Redskins football team, Chairman of the Board of Six Flags Inc., the world 's largest amusement park and theme park operator, and owner of the diner-like Johnny Rockets chain.
2091 The ` Danish Suabian' is a breed of fancy pigeon developed over many years of selective breeding.
2101 While the comparisons have some basis, DRN are far from gloomy, just a bit ... cool ....
2104 In an introduction that appears on the ` Dynamic :01' DVD, Lynch calls the film `` an experiment based on some idea '', and says the film `` was always some kind of tie in to bananas, information concerning bananas, so we can all learn some things as we enjoy the shows ''.
2106 Valentina - Darna 's most famous and greatest foe.
2117 In a multiprocessor system executing a single set of instructions -LRB- SIMD -RRB-, data parallelism is achieved when each processor performs the same task on different pieces of distributed data.
2118 In some situations, a single execution thread controls operations on all pieces of data.
2123 The most common digital computers use a binary alphabet, that is, an alphabet of two characters, typically denoted `` 0 '' and `` 1 ''.
2126 Following a year of political stalemate, the Kpomakpor council was succeeded by another council headed by Wilton Sankawulo and including factional heads themselves rather than representatives as in this version of collective presidency.
2130 Although a university qualified coach and master practitioner in NLP himself, he is believed to rarely coach or train NLP since the success of his other business interests.
2136 During the 2004 election, McGuinty was the favourite in Ottawa South, which was considered a ` safe' Liberal seat.
2140 However, Liberal candidates were generally successful in Ontario despite this setback.
2143 In October 2008 Warner played the role of Lord Mountbatten of Burma in the BBC Four television film In Love with Barbara, a biopic about the life of romantic novelist Barbara Cartland.
2150 The band originally played under the name `` The Easterly '' and is perhaps unique in having played its first big show at Portland 's venerable -LRB- and huge -RRB- State Theatre -LRB- for a Hurricane Katrina benefit -RRB- a mere month after having formed.
2156 DPI has also seen music released on such legendary labels as Korm Plastics, Staalplaat, and Open Wound, as well as many lesser known noise labels.
2158 The ` Traditional Chinese characters' versus ` Simplified Chinese characters' debate has existed for a long time among Chinese users.
2159 The debate has stirred up heated responses from supporters of both sides as it has implications of political ideology and cultural identity in mainland China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and among overseas Chinese communities.
2165 Many markup languages such as HTML, XAML, XSLT, SVG or other user interface markup languages are often declarative.
2174 It is technically an overdoor, probably the most majestic ever painted.
2193 The term `` local derby '', in turn, has been extended to football and other sports in other parts of the world -LRB- although typically not in North America -RRB-.
2195 The ` Detroit Institute of Arts' -LRB- ` DIA' -RRB-, originally named the ` Detroit Museum of Art', has one of the largest, most significant art collections in the United States.
2199 The museum building itself is highly regarded by architects.
2212 The U.S. DVD release, much to the consternation of some American ` Devilman' fans, is English redub only and does not include the original Japanese audio track, whereas the series was released in both subtitled and dubbed form on VHS.
2213 Some English-speaking ` Devilman' fans also believe the English dub of the OVAs is of poor quality and that the English-language script featured excessive and needless profanity.
2216 In America, some pups are commonly sold by breeders `` dewclawed '', that is with the dewclaws removed -LRB- as by a vet -RRB- for perceived health and safety reasons.
2232 When this is taken into account, diesel fuel has a higher energy density than petrol ; this volumetric measure is the main concern of many people, as diesel fuel is sold by volume, not weight, and must be transported and stored in tanks of fixed size.
2235 A foundational result is the Peetre theorem showing that the converse is also true : any local operator is differential.
2236 Additionally, it is said that upon hearing news of his play, The Ransom of Hector, winning the competition at the Lanaean festival at Athens, he celebrated so fiercely that he drank himself to death.
2238 The third theory suggests that `` The Company '', of which he was a member, had taken revenge on his earlier purges and taxation imposed upon them, in an attempt to raise money for the war with Carthage.
2243 The Medical Council of India has laid down standards for post graduate examinations conducted by various medical colleges and affiliated to concerned universities and other institutions, yet the levels of proficiency and standards of evaluation vary considerably in these institutions.
2246 Some of the leaders in the sector include :.
2273 It is initially unclear if he works at inciting a truly positive revolution or has much darker, harmful plans for the people of Heavenside, until the sixth issue where he outright states he plans to bring down the apocalypse and Heavenside is just a testing ground.
2274 His stated reason is that this is `` not the future we were promised ... if we ca n't have that, then we should n't have anything at all ''.
2276 Many investigators have voiced criticism of the methods currently used to control ownership of domains.
2277 Critics commonly claim abuse by monopolies or near-monopolies, such as VeriSign, Inc..
2278 Particularly noteworthy was the VeriSign Site Finder system which redirected all unregistered. com and. net domains to a VeriSign webpage.
2280 In the case of any such problems, those present at lambing -LRB- who may or may not include a veterinarian, most shepherds become accomplished at lambing to some degree -RRB- may assist the ewe in extracting or repositioning lambs.
2288 Di-Natale became notorious for his sensational, if-it-bleeds-it-leads approach to newsgathering.
2289 Many of the stories were about crime - drug lords, violence and murder.
2290 This often caused considerable consternation of the paper 's expatriate readership, most of whom had escaped Northern Europe to sleepy southern Portugal to avoid such social upheavals.
2299 Other critics argue that his management of monetary policy contributed to an excessively strong exchange-rate during the mid-1990s.
2300 However, Brash consistently met Government-set targets to keep inflation within 3 % during his time as Governor, and during his tenure interest-rates dropped from double-digit to single-digit percentages.
2303 He is both the youngest -LRB- 43 years old -RRB- and the oldest -LRB- 74 years old -RRB- person to have held the position, as well as the only person to have held the position for two non-consecutive terms, and the second longest serving, behind Robert McNamara.
2306 This aspect is more conducive to a horror game, and has been criticized by some players as being an artificial constraint that should have been avoided, arguing that it could have been held by a second free hand or strapped directly onto the player 's weapon.
2308 His mutant ability operates by tapping into the Darkforce dimension, as several other Marvel Universe teleporters -LRB- such as Cloak, the Vanisher, Silhouette, etc. -RRB- do.
2313 Eventually, she would `` cause the clerk to forget '' just how many items were outside the case, and at some point she would leave with one or two pieces.
2317 Due in part to his injury, Levens was considered to be a marginal pick in the 1994 NFL Draft, and Mel Kiper Jr. labelled him the most overrated pick on the board.
2323 This film, and his subsequent sound films, were poorly received by Depression era audiences.
2332 Current investments into downtown redevelopment are thought to exceed $ 4 billion.
2337 Eisenhower told a reporter, `` Any American who would have that many other Americans pay him that compliment would be proud or he would not be an American '', and announced his candidacy the next day.
2341 It is implemented in Adobe Flash and uses anime-style graphics, some of which are animated.
2342 It is a prequel to another Artix Entertainment game, ` AdventureQuest', though with some cities that are not present in the latter.
2348 Nixon makes some rather revelatory statements in the course of the call -LRB- which is more like a harangue -RRB-, spurring Frost to delve into deep preparation.
2350 Because the 0.9 mm thickness of the DualDisc CD layer does not conform to Red Book CD Specifications, which call for a layer no less than 1.1 mm thick, some CD players may not be able to play the CD side of a DualDisc due to a phenomenon called spherical aberration.
2354 The downside to this, however, is that the playing time for the CD layer of some early DualDiscs decreased, from the standard 74 minutes of a conventional CD, to around 60 minutes, although this early limitation now appears to have been overcome.
2373 The offer was rejected and the government was harshly criticized by the public and even the provincial Ombudsman, Daniel Jacoby, came out saying that the government 's handling of the situation had trivialized the abuse the victims alleged.
2379 The results of the vote were later bitterly contested by a group which believed the victims should have received more.
2380 Many believe that justice was not done and criminal wrongdoing was allowed to go unpunished.
2381 Opponents of the judgment led by Rod Vienneau of Joliette, Quebec pointed out that bureaucrats processing the applications for compensation were in many cases being paid over $ 1,000 per day of work, whereas the orphans themselves received the same amount for an entire year of their childhood confined illegally to insane asylums.
2382 Also contentious is the fact that the Duplessis Orphan Committee 's lawyer and PR agent Carlo Tarini are believed to have earned several millions in compensation for their work whereas the actual victims no received more than $ 15,000 each.
2386 The turn of the 20th century was a period of great cultural and political transformation within Bosnia & Hercegovina, and it was also a time when Džemaludin Čaušević emerged as an individual who was well-versed and capable in both traditional Islamic theology as well as modern science and thought.
2389 Some have criticized the emphasis eBay places on its subsidiary PayPal as a method of accepting payments.
2390 eBay discourages sellers from using independent money-wiring companies such as Western Union and MoneyGram -LRB- Moneybookers is now allowed instead -RRB-, stating that it prohibits or discourages certain forms of payment in order to reduce fraud.
2393 Certain non-U.S. branches of eBay allow sellers to advertise wire transfers or mailed cash as payment options, provided such methods are not the only payment options the seller accepts.
2395 It used as many commercially available parts as possible.
2399 The Opening Day has developed into one of the largest and most significant academic events in the Netherlands.
2400 The most prominent and internationally renowned speakers will present their views and experience in a variety of ways such as lectures, interviews and panel discussions for an audience of almost 900.
2403 Both speakers and the audience are therefore treated with an afternoon filled with inspiring speeches and discussions in a large and spectacular setting.
2405 It is thought that interactions with other proteins is one way in which specific binding to DNA is achieved.
2409 Some Uyghur issues being brought to attention in the international arena include a great many alleged injustices.
2412 Also, the Han Chinese government has been accused of taking Uyghur children away from East Turkestan and forcing them to attend schools in other parts of the country, in which they are separated from their families, their culture and their native language, which is very different from Han Chinese.
2428 The 2002 Winter Olympics facilitated a need for many hotels and restaurants that have now led to market saturation.
2433 It has become a common occurrence for homeless shelters to overflow during winter months, leading some with no other option but to spend the night out in the cold, which results in numerous fatalities.
2438 She studied at the Chicago Art Institute under Virginia Reynolds, generally considered the most famous American miniature painter of the time.
2449 She acted on stage as well, most notably on Broadway but she also worked with several regional stock companies.
2459 After many years the court cleared him, but this did not bring back both health and family.
2460 It is also worth noting that Thorp 's blackjack research is one of the very few examples where results from such reached the public directly, completely bypassing the usual academic peer review process cycle.
2462 He has also stated that he considered the whole experiment an academic exercise.
2471 The United Nation 's Children 's Fund reported on Thursday that aid for 200,000 people, including medical supplies, soap and tarpaulin, was being held at Jakarta for a day to clear customs.
2472 The US consul in Medan in southern Sumatra reported that aid there was piling up at the airports of Medan and Banda Aceh because there were not enough trucks to transport it.
2476 Law is argued to exist not because men recognize them as being favorable to their interests, but because men hold them to be sacred.
2480 There are, according to Stirner, no rights, because might makes right and an individual is entitled to everything he has the power to possess and hold.
2481 The way to gain freedom, it is then argued, is through might because he who has might stands above the law.
2482 A person only becomes completely free when what he holds, he holds because of his might.
2486 it is argued that an individual should center his interest on self and concentrate on his own business.
2487 One of Farjeon 's poetic talents was to make history easy and memorable.
2488 In poetry that is varied, witty and picturesque, Farjeon presents the saints, the kings, the tyrants and the notable events in forms that fixed them in the minds of the young reader.
2490 Many date the formal birth of electroacoustic music to the late 1940s and early 1950s, and in particular to the work of two groups of composers whose aesthetic orientations were radically opposed.
2492 In Cologne, ` elektronische Musik', pioneered in 1949 -- 51 by the composer Herbert Eimert and the physicist Werner Meyer-Eppler, was based solely on electronically generated -LRB- synthetic -RRB- sounds, particularly sine waves -LRB- Ungeheuer 1992 -RRB-.
2493 The precise control afforded by the studio allowed for what Eimert considered to be an electronic extension and perfection of serialism ; in the studio, serial operations could be applied to elements such as timbre and dynamics.
2496 Critics of DRE Machines claim that there is a risk of the DRE software being compromised in an undetectable fashion.
2498 While writing other popular stories, she was also a great advocate, by lecturing and otherwise, for social reform, temperance, and the emancipation of women.
2500 However, she met strong opposition from a hard core of local councillors, town clerks and members of the public -LRB- four councillors and the town clerk resigned in response to her election -RRB-, and they often disrupted meetings and orchestrated opposition to her every proposal.
2501 It is noted by some critics that she did not help her own cause by being ` tactless' and ` dictatorial' in her manner.
2503 Even her opponents had to concede however, that she had been very effective during her short tenure, having liquidated the borough debt, established a sinking fund, reorganised the fire brigade, upgraded roads, footpaths and sanitation, and having personally lobbied the government to authorise the reopening of the Waikaraka cemetery.
2513 The most recent hoax was that of a fictional family that `` paints the leaves '' of trees in the fall.
2519 This hoax became widely known throughout the entire state of Minnesota, and was often reported on radio stations.
2521 Because of these, some consider Emeryville an exclave of the Silicon Valley region, the northern reaches of which are about south of Emeryville.
2525 The etic approach requires that the marketing strategy be so basic that it does not matter in which part of the world it is implemented.
2527 There have been some famous mishaps when it comes to the etic approach, the most notable one being Euro Disney, which tried to imitate its American counterparts and failed.
2528 Success has come to coffee giant Starbuck 's, which has successfully implemented the same store structure of comfortable couches, soft lighting, and strong coffee in various parts of the world.
2532 It continues today to have a following in many parts of the world including the US.
2537 Some experts -LRB- psychologists, psychiatrists, and other scientists -RRB- believe that not all humans have an ability to feel empathy or perceive the emotions of others.
2538 For instance, Autism and related conditions such as Asperger 's syndrome are often -LRB- but not always -RRB- characterized by an apparent reduced ability to empathize with others.
2542 It can be better described as a situation where a certain lack or lacks in one 's life overtake the emotional and mental focus in an obsessive, sometimes subconscious manner.
2544 It may seek expression through different types of self-harming behaviors, and in more extreme cases, suicide.
2549 The group says it has around 300 active supporters and has 3,281 internet followers according to Facebook groups as of 21 September 2009.
2556 Characteristics of intonation English is a strongly stressed language, in that certain syllables, both within words and within phrases, get a relative prominence/loudness during pronunciation while the others do not.
2557 The former kind of syllables are said to be ` accentuated/stressed' and the latter are ` unaccentuated/unstressed'.
2558 All good dictionaries of English mark the accentuated syllable -LRB- s -RRB- by either placing an apostrophe-like -LRB- -RRB- sign either before -LRB- as in IPA, Oxford English Dictionary, or Merriam-Webster dictionaries -RRB- or after -LRB- as in many other dictionaries -RRB- the syllable where the stress accent falls.
2559 In general, for a two-syllable word in English, it can be broadly said that if it is a noun or an adjective, the first syllable is accentuated ; but if it is a verb, the second syllable is accentuated.
2565 In 2007 Enologix made the first Classification of Napa Valley American Viticultural Areas-to TASTE3 which brings together more than forty of the most compelling writers, thinkers, chefs, winemakers, journalists, artisans, and executives as speakers.
2567 The most popular one is through opening a new organization -LRB- e.g starting a new business -RRB-.
2570 A recent approach involves creating charitable organizations -LRB- or portions of existing charities -RRB- which are designed to be self-supporting in addition to doing their good works.
2580 It is a letter written to a Muslim cleric, a violent opponent of the Bahá' ís who, along with his father -LRB- called by Bahá ` u 'll áh `` the wolf '' -RRB-, also a Muslim cleric, had put to death a number of Bahá' ís.
2581 This work is noteworthy, as within Bahá ` u 'll áh quotes extensively from his own previously revealed Tablets.
2586 Professionals in many urban related fields meet in these city offices -LRB- on line or live -RRB- and share ideas and inspiration on culture and cities.
2589 The pair is generally considered to be one of the most influential and groundbreaking groups in the history of hip hop, due to both Eric B. 's jazzy production and Rakim 's revolutionary rhyming style, which was smooth, seemingly effortless, and used remarkably complex rhyming schemes involving internal rhymes and sophisticated metaphors.
2590 It is the general consensus that almost all modern MCs have been influenced in some way by Rakim 's rhyming technique.
2595 Voegelin 's definition of Eschaton would be more toward the idea that Gnostics are really rejecting `` Christianity 's '' eschaton of Heaven and Hell and replacing it with a human form of salvation through revelation by mystical ritual or practice.
2597 It is highly doubtful as to whether people historically identified as Gnostics ` all' thought that the world could be improved.
2598 Indeed, one might allege that the idea of the millennium, and the coming of the perfect kingdom of God to Earth is part of orthodox Christianity, more than it is part of Gnosticism.
2600 Also Voegelin attempted to clarify that gnostics had a constructive intention in their motive rather then the more destructive motive that could be derived from believing that the material world was evil and that it should be destroyed rather then repaired or improved.
2601 Also the `` improvement '' through knowledge might be indirect like individualist -LRB- psychological -RRB- rather then say an improvement directly to the material world.
2607 In its best years, it employed as many as forty people, among them, as a trainee, Julius Posener, later a famous architectural historian.
2608 Mendelsohn 's work encapsulated the consumerism of the Weimar Republic, most particularly in his shops : most famously the Schocken Department Stores.
2610 His Mossehaus newspaper offices and Universum cinema were also highly influential on art deco and Streamline Moderne.
2612 In 1926, not even forty years old, he was able to buy himself an old villa.
2619 Of these the Buzzard was the most important, leading to the ` R' series, which powered the Supermarine S. 6 seaplanes that won the Schneider Trophy in 1929 and 1931 for Rolls-Royce, and most importantly the famous Merlin engine.
2623 The Common was not always wooded, and much of the area was formerly open heathland used as common grazing land.
2624 It has not been grazed for many years and secondary woodland has grown over much of the area.
2625 The significance of the variety of habitats has resulted in the Common being designated a Site of Special Scientific Interest -LRB- SSSI -RRB- in 1955 by the Nature Conservancy -LRB- now English Nature -RRB-, the statutory body which enables and promotes nature conservation in England.
2626 A programme to fell tracts of secondary woodland has led to various public protests.
2632 As this format closely adheres to that of the Second Discourse, some have discussed whether one account ought to be read as more authoritative than the other.
2640 The language of Vojvodina Jews was Yiddish, German or Hungarian, with many families bilingual -LRB- or even trilingual -RRB-.
2643 Traditionally, Eton has been referred to as `` the chief nurse of England 's statesmen '', and is often described as the most famous public school in the world.'.
2649 Some favour further enlargement to continue using the positive influence membership prospects have on neighbouring countries, while others fear `` over-stretch ''.
2650 Some believe the European public in particular are suffering from `` enlargement fatigue '' following the accession of 10 members in 2004.
2651 Turkey is a particularly controversial topic, considering its large population, low standard of living, Muslim culture, geographical position and ongoing disagreements over Cyprus.
2660 Some new innovations increase the exhaust back-pressure by various means, leading to more torque at the flywheel, and therefore more braking power.
2663 It has long been claimed that Exhorder pioneered the angry, 90 's post-thrash metal that is often linked to Pantera, as Exhorder were signed to a record label around the same time as Pantera -LRB- though Exhorder 's first released their music on demos in the 1980s, while Pantera were playing glam metal music.
2664 Many have claimed that Pantera ripped off Exhorder, with the resemblance of stripped-down rhythm guitars, heavy double-bass drumming, and angry -LRB- almost identical -RRB- vocals -LRB- complimenting the basic American thrash style of the late 80 's -RRB- however, Exhorder 's first album Slaughter in the vatican was more in the vain of pure thrash, and Exhorder did not introduce heavy use of groove metal techniques until they released the Law on March 15 1992, which still leaves the controversy of whether or not Pantera ripped them off or not as Pantera already had two Groove metal releases -LRB- Cowboys from hell two years before hand, And Vulgar display of power a month before hand -RRB- before Exhorder released The Law, being Exhorder 's first groove metal release.
2670 Chrysler canceled the C3 project in February 2000, and although some see that initial failure as a problem with XP, the method had caught on in the software engineering field.
2679 There are, especially in the neighborhood of the lake, many ruins of ancient villages and cities.
2682 The site, which probably sat at the edge of Faiyum lake at the time, is still largely buried in the sand, although excavations have revealed walls and houses built of terracotta and limestone, along with foundations of ovens and grain stores.
2688 Its core function is to determine cases with the most complex law, facts and parties, to cover specialised areas in family law, and to provide national coverage as the national appellate court for family law matters.
2691 Much derision was poured on websites that advertise and sell in-game items and property when many of them closed briefly and could not carry out transactions over the Chinese New Year.
2700 Supporters of the FMA assert that this argument was an invalid scare tactic from the outset and that the FMA would not prevent laws against domestic abuse from being applied to unmarried couples.
2707 Many in the legal community correctly predicted that the scare over the DV laws was nothing but a propaganda tactic, intended to frighten voters in Other States and that the Ohio Supreme Court would rule that there was no conflict with the DV statutes and the Marriage Amendment.
2708 As a result of this scare tactic several Attorneys General of other states issued legal opinions finding that no such conflict would exist.
2710 Thus the contention that any marriage amendment would conflict with DV Statutes has been proven to be a farce.
2719 Fields of academic study have been created that are derivative or dependent on the existence of film, such as film criticism, film history, divisions of film propaganda in authoritarian governments, or psychological on subliminal effects of a flashing soda can during a screening.
2723 It is considered by some to be pejorative, originating in West German political debate of the 1960s and 1970s.
2732 Supporters of banning fireworks cite the potential dangers, but hobbyists claim that fireworks may be used safely given appropriate precautions.
2734 Media has also been criticized by hobbyists for exaggerating the dangers of fireworks -LRB- for example, fireworks are often incorrectly seen as high explosives that can level an entire block.
2736 With other seafoods, it provides the world 's prime source of high-quality protein : 14 -- 16 percent of the animal protein consumed worldwide.
2740 Their usage is generally dictated by the director of photography, but the responsibility for placing them can vary by region, usually devolving to either the gaffer and electricians or the key grip and lighting grips.
2741 They are usually several square feet in area and mounted on C-stands or overhead rigs.
2744 After Miranda later designed his flag based on this conversation, he happily recalled seeing a fresco by Lazzaro Tavarone in the Palazzo Belimbau in Genoa that depicted Christopher Columbus unfurling a similar-coloured flag in Veragua during his fourth voyage.
2745 Different historians have maintained that these advocates of the flat Earth were either influential -LRB- a view typified by Andrew Dickson White -RRB- or relatively unimportant -LRB- typified by Jeffrey Burton Russell -RRB- in the later Middle Ages.
2749 Along with community websites such as Avsim.com, the website has been identified as a key component in bringing community members together to discuss the topic of flight simulation, with real world meetings and events of website community members common.
2750 The website also provides a news service that covers both commercial releases and important announcements from developers and virtual airlines within the community.
2751 Community forums are provided for both the website community and the flight simulation community in general, with many of the early virtual airlines having forums and websites hosted by the site.
2787 He praised the Philippines for being a bastion of democracy in the east and for being America 's oldest ally in Asia.
2794 Although the main plot does follow a -LRB- remarkably well thought out -RRB- Plan, the book focuses on the development of the characters, and their slow transition from skeptical editors, mocking the Manutius manuscripts to credulous Diabolicals themselves.
2798 Some people argue that, without this rule, the Fourth Amendment would be essentially meaningless.
2799 Uitti has collaborated with and is the dedicatee of composers Luigi Nono, Louis Andriessen, James Tenney, Jonathan Harvey, John Cage, Karen Tanaka, Per Norgaard, Giacinto Scelsi, Elliott Sharp, György Kurtág, Richard Barrett, Guus Janssen, Jay Alan Yim, Vinko Globokar, Clarence Barlow, David Dramm, Geoffrey King, Martijn Padding, Horaţiu Rădulescu, Calliope Tsoupaki, and Peter Nelson, among many others.
2800 She collaborates in duo with Mark Dresser, and with Evan Parker, Joel Ryan, Misha Mengelberg, David Wessel, and other legends out the jazz world as well as with DJ Low, Scanner etc, and artists Hooykaas Stansfield, Marina Abromovic, Steina Vasulka, Frank Scheffer.
2809 Gehry 's work has its detractors as the architecture values and its accompanying aspects within modern architecture vary, both between different schools of thought and among practising architects.
2812 The buildings are apparently designed without researching the local climate.
2819 Admirers of the building remind critics that similar attacks were levelled against the Eiffel Tower in the late 19th century, and that only historical perspective would allow a fair evaluation of the building 's merits.
2821 After Liz Lemon, who is head writer and the protagonist of the series, Frank is the most prominently featured writer of the show-within-a-show.
2826 In the following years, he was the most visible critic of Kohl 's politics in his own political camp, even after Kohl ascended to the Chancellorship.
2828 This move was widely criticised even during Strauß 's lifetime ; it is today regarded by some as having artificially prolonged the life of the then-bankrupt communist state.
2840 Many of these fabricators build bikes that celebrate the theme of each ride, from St Patrick 's Day to Halloween.
2842 The last type of rider will employ the services of a select group of Custom Chopper Bicycle Designers who have frames and parts that are not available in most bike shops.
2847 However, with suitable post-processing, they could fulfil many other applications, such as silicon chip mounts, or even engine blocks.
2862 ` Frugality' -LRB- also known as ` thrift' or ` thriftiness' -RRB-, often confused with cheapness or miserliness, is a traditional value, life style, or belief system, in which individuals practice both restraint in the acquiring of and resourceful use of economic goods and services in order to achieve lasting and more fulfilling goals.
2876 It is widely considered one of his finest works.
2879 It is widely served in hotels and restaurants in Indonesia, and in Indonesian restaurants in other countries.
2888 Gangteng Monastery is one of the main seats of the religious tradition based on Pema Lingpa 's revalations and one of the main centres of the Nyingmapa school of Buddhism in Bhutan.
2894 He also reportedly abused and killed neighborhood pets, which is widely considered an early sign of antisocial personality disorder.
2899 ` Gato' -LRB- arguably -RRB- formed the basis of the largest class of submarines ever built, counting the ` Balao' & ` Tench', which were n't substantially different.
2903 ` Trigger' became famous in Edward L. `` Ned '' Beach 's book ` Submarine !' -LRB- which was a kind of eulogy to her -RRB-.
2904 ` Wahoo', commanded by the Sub Force 's most famous skipper, Dudley W. `` Mush '' Morton, was the first U.S. sub into the Sea of Japan.
2908 -LRB- Many believe the JANAC figures are very inaccurate as to numbers of ships sunk. -RRB-.
2909 ` Harder' was commanded by Samuel D. Dealey, the only submariner of the war -LRB- perhaps the only one ever -RRB- to sink five enemy destroyers, four in a single patrol.
2919 Much of the Bible is believed to have not only a literal sense, but a spiritual sense as well, which work together by means of correspondence -LRB- theology -RRB-.
2920 In other words, the Bible is seen as a kind of spiritual allegory, which uses words as symbols that each point to a particular spiritual form or concept.
2924 It has passed every unambiguous test to which it has been subjected so far, both observationally and experimentally.
2925 It is almost universally accepted by the scientific community.
2930 Montenegro 's mountainous regions receive some of the highest amounts of rainfall in Europe.
2936 Kilimanjaro 's natural beauty, as well as the fact that it has the highest peak in Africa, attracts thousands of tourists each year.
2939 In some years rainfall in Essex can be below 450 mm -LRB- 18 inches -RRB-, less than the average annual rainfall in Jerusalem and Beirut.
2946 Nonetheless, the family and its network remains substantially influential so that although the county has remained one of the strongest and most consistently Democrat localities in Texas, frequently giving both national and local candidates margins greater than 70 percent.
2954 He remained impoverished, and decided to enter the army, which provided material for one of his best-known plays, ` The Recruiting Officer' -LRB- 1706 -RRB-.
2957 The last work, completed as he was dying, is considered by many to be Farquhar 's best.
2958 It was in ` The Twin Rivals', however, that his most frequently quoted line, `` Necessity, the mother of invention, '' appears.
2960 According to ` Approaching The Possible' by Jo Storm, the season 2 episode `` 1969 '' showed that Hammond climbed the military ladder `` by being shrewd, intelligent, and -LSB- by being -RSB- possessed of a long vision '' despite being a `` spouted bottom-line pragmatis -LSB- t -RSB- ''.
2962 Recognizing the need to fulfill the role as a General, Davis still tried to `` bring a few levels to him that show some understanding and that make him a little more likeable. ''.
2966 The actor appeared at Wiltons in London 's East End, the world 's oldest and last surviving grand music hall, and an adjoining modern residential apartment block has appropriately been named after him -LRB- Leybourne House -RRB-.
2967 His good looks, elegant manner and superior acting skills landed Peppard his most famous film role as Paul Varjak in ` Breakfast at Tiffany 's' with Audrey Hepburn.
2970 From 1894 on, there were many attempts to forcibly remove Streeter from the District, often for violating laws that prohibited the sale of liquor on Sunday.
2985 These usually show some differences from what is expected from the model.
2989 He is known as one of Armagh 's best ever players.
2992 It was decided that the mediatised monarchs, free cities and secularised states would not be recreated, but instead the monarchs of the mediatised states were to be considered equal to the remaining sovereign monarchs, and they would receive compensation for their loss.
2993 As it was left to each of the remaining states to compensate them, and they had no authority to complain to if they were n't fairly reimbursed, many of the monarchs never received their supposed due.
2998 A tactician and considered to be one of the most defensive boxers in the world, he is the current WBO Bantamweight Champion.
2999 The player enters a lobby and proceeds to pick a game room, where a game is about to begin or is already underway.
3004 Some thought the game was `` tasteless '' and `` offensive '' due to its racial overtones ; for example, the name of Malcolm X was intentionally misspelled as `` Malcum Y ''.
3005 They are herbaceous annuals, rarely perennials, growing to 10-120 cm tall.
3006 The leaves are spirally arranged, usually pinnate -LRB- rarely simple -RRB-, forming a basal rosette in most species.
3030 Though the numbers are not known, some people estimate that Google maintains over 450,000 servers, arranged in racks located in clusters in cities around the world, with major centers in Mountain View, California ; Virginia ; Atlanta, Georgia ; Dublin, Ireland ; and new facilities constructed in The Dalles, Oregon.
3035 He was responsible for Hopewell 's infrastructure projects in mainland China and Southeast Asia and has been involved in the design and construction of many buildings and development projects in Hong Kong and mainland China.
3039 His masterpiece, ` Symbolism of Dreams' -LRB- 1814 -RRB- was one of the most famous books of its time, exercising influence over E. T. A. Hoffmann and even Sigmund Freud and C. G. Jung.
3046 On December 9th, 1936, Robert Goyard decided - along with his friends and contemporaries at Boucheron, Cartier, Charvet, Chaumet, Guerlain, Morgan and Ritz - to unite the most prestigious houses of the Place Vendome.
3056 It is used to express the steepness of slope on a hill, stream, roof, railroad, or road, where zero indicates ` level' -LRB- with respect to gravity -RRB- and increasing numbers correlate to more vertical inclinations.
3062 Brady 's constituency is considered to be a Conservative safe seat, having returned a Conservative MP for its entire history, and for years Altrincham and Sale West has been the only constituency in Greater Manchester to elect a Conservative candidate to Parliament.
3064 ` San Andreas' met most of these expectations, as it was praised as one of the PlayStation 2 's best games, with an average review score on 95 %, according to Metacritic, at Metacritic tying for the fifth highest ranked game in PlayStation 2 history.
3069 Most criticisms of the game stemmed from graphical mishaps, poor character models, and low-resolution textures, as well as various control issues, particularly with auto-aiming at enemies.
3070 Some critics commented that while a lot of new content had been added to ` San Andreas', little of it had been refined or implemented well.
3075 It is likely to be similar in function to Apple Computer 's Sudden Motion Sensor and IBM 's HDAPS.
3090 It has been argued that Rasputin helped to discredit the tsarist government, leading to the fall in 1917 of the Romanov dynasty.
3092 Historians may find both to be true, but there is much uncertainty, for accounts of his life have often been based on dubious memoirs, hearsay, and legend.
3094 The `` philosophic '' declamations perhaps constituted its chief interest for the general public, and its significance as a contribution to democratic propaganda.
3095 The ` Histoire' went through many editions, being revised and augmented from time to time by Raynal ; it was translated into the principal European languages, and appeared in various abridgments.
3099 The Björketorp Runestone lacks names and is raised some tens of km from the others.
3100 However, it is beyond doubt that the Björketorp runestone is connected to them, because in addition to the special runic forms, the same message is given on the Stentoften Runestone.
3106 Senegal 's success at containing HIV/AIDS, widely praised and studied, provides valuable lessons for other countries in the region.
3113 Exactly when this happened is uncertain, but he had papers referring to this by the time of the Walpurgisnacht Rock concert.
3114 The longtime status of Netherlands as a largely neutral nation in international conflicts and the corresponding ascendance of The Hague as a primary location for diplomatic and international conferences has led to several negotiated conventions over the years being termed the ` Hague Convention' :.
3128 Gautama Buddha is probably the earliest recorded thinker to discuss the role of the mind in the pursuit of happiness, including the psychological origins of mental dysfunction, and positive interventions to remove such dysfunction through the practice of the eightfold path, and especially mindfulness and concentration.
3136 Contemporary harmonicists Howard Levy, Jason Ricci, Carlos del Junco, Olivier Poumay, Frederic Yonnet and John Popper are perhaps the most innovative players since Little Walter.
3141 The acknowledged master of over blowing, Levy plays one-handed piano and harmonica together in unison or harmony, performing the most difficult music including bebop, world music, and other forms requiring outstanding technique and ability.
3143 ` Harry A. Gair' was in his time the United States most prominent trial Lawyer in the field of negligence, or accident law, and unequalled as a court room nemesis to opposing medical witnesses.
3151 His master 's degree is from University of Konstanz, Germany -LRB- 1986 -RRB-, where Ralf Dahrendorf and Albrecht Wellmer were the most important influences.
3160 The laird, Arthur Nicholson, who had bought it had `` cleared '' parts of Fetlar, and it is possible that the islanders removed themselves in anticipation of a possible future forcible eviction by this landowner.
3181 With initial demand for over 40 million shares, Healtheon 's price rose over 400 % on the first day of trading ; it was one of the most successful IPOs to date.
3195 Some commentators have praised Helen Clark -LRB- along with the Minister of Finance Michael Cullen -RRB- for overseeing a period of sustained and stable economic growth, with an increase in employment that has seen a gradual lowering of the unemployment rate to 3.6 %.
3196 Although her critics acknowledge these factors, many such critics maintain that the growth has come about as the result of wider economic factors, and that increases in the sickness benefit have caused -LRB- at least in part -RRB- the decrease in unemployment.
3208 In this paper Bull suggested that collapse of freeways presented a greater danger than collapse of masonry buildings.
3220 PSW means `` Program Status Word '', which includes what is known as `` Instruction Pointer '' on some other architectures, along with other status information.
3224 The most well-known genus is ` Hericium', species of which are valued for their medicinal properties in Oriental medicine.
3226 Phylogenetic analysis suggests that ` Hericiaceae' belongs to the russuloid clade of homobasidiomycetes, and morphological and molecular evidence links it with the families Auriscalpiaceae, Bondarzewiaceae and Echinodontiaceae.
3234 Definitions of sexuality tend to be narrower to most heterosexuals than it is to people of other sexual orientations.
3236 Many heterosexuals would argue that one whose determination of a partner 's sex deviates from that criterion can not truly be heterosexual.
3237 Transgendered people and even those with many natural intersex conditions are very rarely seen as potential mates by heterosexuals, even those who consider themselves tolerant and accepting to such identities.
3251 See also history of South America, history of Latin America, history of the Americas, and the history of present-day nations and states.
3253 Though it held some political importance, as the center of first the Bosnian region and then the Drinska Banovina, it was not treated with the same attention or considered as significant as it was in the past.
3257 The meaning of this term seems to have been synonymous with the land of Rus' propria -- the principalities of Kiev, Chernihiv and Pereyaslav.
3258 The term, `` Greater Rus' '' was used to apply to all the lands ruled by Kiev, including those that were not just Slavic, but also Finno-Ugric in the north-east portions of the state.
3259 Local regional subdivisions of Rus' appeared in the Slavic heartland, including, `` Belarus' '' -LRB- White Ruthenia -RRB-, `` Chorna Rus' '' -LRB- Black Ruthenia -RRB- and `` Cherven' Rus' '' -LRB- Red Ruthenia -RRB- in north-western and western Ukraine.
3263 As well, two transcontinental rail lines and the Trans-Canada Highway had been built through the valley, and the province 's major airport had been established in Richmond.
3272 Small towns like Syracuse, New York, Buffalo, New York, and Cleveland, Ohio that lied along major canal routes boomed into major industrial and trade centers, while exuberant canal-building pushed some states like Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Indiana to the brink of bankruptcy.
3273 Hollister Ranch owners are currently restricted in terms of development in a situation that many say will result in efficient preservation of one of the last vestiges of the natural California coastline.
3274 They are sometimes judged better stewards, as private owners, than regional public, state or national preservation projects.
3276 Old master prints, nearly all on religious subjects, served many of the same functions as holy cards, especially the cheaper woodcuts ; the earliest dated surviving example is from 1423, and depicts Saint Christopher, with handcolouring.
3277 Later engraving or etching were more commonly used.
3278 Some had elaborate borders of paper lace surrounding the images ; these were called 'd évotes dentelles' in France.
3281 The school 's main hallway features a large Works Progress Administration mural entitled `` Community Life in the 19th Century, '' by Ralph Hendricksen and Emmanuel Jacobson, probably completed in 1936.
3293 It is one of the most identifiable nebulae because of the shape of its swirling cloud of dark dust and gases, which is similar to that of a horse 's head.
3297 She is also frequently referred to in popular writing or talks on the history of the period.
3298 A work that has been translated into English is Ayako Miura 's novel, ` Hosokawa Garasha Fujin' -LRB- English title : ` Lady Gracia : a Samurai Wife 's Love, Strife and Faith' -RRB-, which follows history fairly closely.
3301 This technique is said to have been used by some television psychics.
3302 The psychics may have clients schedule their appearance ahead of time, and then send confederates to people 's homes to collect information while posing as religious missionaries, magazine sales people, or the like.
3307 It was divided into several branches, the eldest of which, that of the viscounts of Rohan, became extinct in 1527.
3308 Of the younger branches the most famous is that of Guemenee, from which sprang the branches of Montbazon, Soubise and Gie.
3311 His grandson, ` Louis de Rohan-Guemenee', the ` chevalier' de Rohan, who was notorious for his dissolute life, conspired with the Dutch against Louis XIV and was beheaded in Paris in 1674.
3312 Ludovico Sforza -LRB- also known as ` Ludovico il Moro', famous also for taking Leonardo da Vinci at his service -RRB- was defeated in 1500 by the French army of Louis XII of France - see also Italian Wars.
3319 Some regard the 2004 American movie ` The Perfect Score' as a remake.
3324 His poems have been published for many years in many literary magazines, including the exemplary -LSB- ` Square Lake' -RSB- in 2004 and -LSB- ` SLAB' -RSB- in 2006.
3327 The word ` guo' can be interpret as state or tribe, which depend on different cases, some of the problem including, perhaps vague in meaning, taking for example the Samhan which mentioned in the ` Records of Three Kingdoms' consisted of seventy eight ` guo', where ` guo' here could have been translated differently.
3328 Thus, the ` State of Huá', can refer to the name of the Hephthalites' country or tribes mentioned in what is now north Afghanistan from the ` Book of Liang' and ` Portraits of Periodical Offering of Liang'.
3329 However, Malyavkin -LRB- 1989 -RRB- insists that the Hephthalite country was called Yeda by the Chinese, and only the polity was called Hua.
3333 These views have sparked debate and criticism, particularly among the more media-friendly members of the AI research community.
3334 When the European Super League was formed, it was suggested that Hull should merge with Hull Kingston Rovers to form ` Humberside'.
3335 Hull 's shareholders gave the idea general approval but it was ultimately resisted and the club like many other rugby league clubs, rebrand and became known as the Hull Sharks.
3336 It is unclear who came up with the ` Sharks' as a nickname but for a nautical city it was a fairly obvious choice.
3338 An ombudsman received and addressed complaints, some of which were against the government 's policies.
3345 Tun Hussein along with the Tunku, henceforth, became a strident critic of the Mahathir administration and died without having rejoined UMNO.
3351 `` What A Waster '' and `` I Get Along '' are both notable for having only one vocalist : Doherty in the former, Barat in the latter -LRB- on many other Libertines songs both Barat and Doherty would share vocal duties -RRB-.
3352 However, it is unclear who wrote which song - both are credited to Doherty/Barat, although Doherty has previously stated that he wrote most of both songs.
3353 This is unconfirmed and, most would agree, unimportant as Barat 's backing vocals and guitar playing add much to both songs.
3358 In the early days of the Internet, before the creation of classful networks and later CIDR addressing, large blocks of IP addresses were allocated to individual companies and organizations.
3359 It is often suggested that these allocations should be reclaimed by IANA and reissued to others.
3360 However, it can cost a great deal of time and money to renumber a network so these organizations will likely object, quite possibly to the point of filing lawsuits.
3363 When the client is using a web browser, this will display a search page that contains possible suggestions on the proper address and a small explaination of the error.
3366 It is often alleged that the speed and totality of the German collapse were caused by Romanian betrayal.
3367 A study of the combat operations indicates that this is probably not correct.
3368 Romanian formations did resist the Soviet attack in many cases, but were ill-equipped to defend themselves effectively against a modern army, due to a lack of modern anti-tank, artillery, and anti-air weapons.
3375 All Caliphs from Muawiya onwards are regarded as tyrants except Umar ibn Abdul Aziz, on whom opinions differ.
3377 In spite of her very short career and limited output, Higuchi is remembered for the quality of her works and is considered to be the first professional female writer in modern Japanese literature.
3380 It has been estimated from various studies that 50-90 % of all reported UFO sightings are eventually identified, while 10-20 % remain unidentified -LRB- the rest being `` garbage cases '' with insufficient information.
3381 Various studies have also shown that only a small percentage of UFO reports are deliberate hoaxes -LRB- typically less than 1 % -RRB-.
3389 These people were subjected to radiation exposure, up to 298 times of the usual quantity, up to 134 Sv at certain point of time.
3394 The charity grew over the next twenty years to become one of the world 's leading cancer research charities.
3397 Charles II of Spain was physically and mentally disabled, possibly due to inbreeding.
3398 The royal and noble families of Europe have close blood ties which are strengthened by royal intermarriage ; the most discussed instances of interbreeding relate to European monarchies.
3400 Several Habsburgs, Bourbons and Wittelsbachs married aunts, uncles, nieces and nephews.
3406 Some people argued that there is no historical reference to an Inca or Tawantisuyo flag or banner until the early 1920s ; but other specialists suggest that there are chronicles and some references that support the idea of a banner attributable to the Inca, many of them cite the chronicler Bernabé Cobo, who wrote :.
3410 They spread Hinduism and many other aspects of Indian culture including the Brahmi Script.
3416 This record will also be their first two-CD set since 1995 's live album' 1200 Curfews' ; the first disc has the 10 tracks accompanied by a backing band, and the second includes the same 10 songs with only Ray and Saliers on vocals and acoustic guitars and an additional track.
3417 However, the military strength of nomadic tribes from Central Asia -LRB- Yuezhi and Scythians -RRB- probably constituted a significant threat to the Indo-Greeks.
3418 According to Zhang Qian, the Yuezhi represented a considerable force of between 100,000 and 200,000 mounted archer warriors,' `` They are a nation of nomads, moving from place to place with their herds, and their customs are like those of the Xiongnu.
3419 They have some 100,000 or 200,000 archer warriors ... The Yuezhi originally lived in the area between the Qilian or Heavenly mountains and Dunhuang, but after they were defeated by the Xiongnu they moved far away to the west, beyond Dayuan, where they attacked and conquered the people of Daxia -LRB- Bactria -RRB- and set up the court of their king on the northern bank of the Gui -LRB- Oxus -RRB- river ''' with customs identical to those of the Xiongnu.
3421 Industrial parks are usually located close to transport facilities, especially where more than one transport modalities coincide : highways, railroads, airports, and navigable rivers.
3426 Under conventional economic theory, the Information Age also heralded the era where information was a scarce resource and its capture and distribution generated competitive advantage.
3433 In the Intangible Economy, four factors of production - knowledge assets -LRB- what people know and put into use -RRB-, collaboration assets -LRB- whom people interact with to create value -RRB-, engagement assets -LRB- the level of energy and commitment of people -RRB-, and time quality -LRB- how quickly value is created -RRB- are the four key resources from which economic activity and competitive advantage are primarily derived and delivered today.
3434 It is helpful to understand that Google is now a serious competitor to Microsoft as it relies on Intangible Economy principles to run its operations.
3436 ` Information Age' is a term that has been used to refer to the present economic era.
3440 Niermann flanks these reports -LRB- or protocols -RRB- with Chinese views, for example by renowned artist Ai Weiwei.
3441 Three approaches are taken when designing insensitive munitions : First, the high energy device can be protected and transported with an external protection of some kind.
3442 Some munition shipping containers are designed to provide a degree of protection and thermal insulation.
3444 Lastly, the casings of high energy devices can be designed in such a way as to allow venting or some other form of pressure relief in a fire.
3447 Some believe that the FSB will prove to be the weak link for Intel, as the Core microarchitecture uses a shared bus, unlike AMD 's HyperTransport.
3450 However, this is mitigated to some degree by the use of a separate front-side bus for each physical CPU package.
3453 The ICF, along with Chelsea Headhunters, Leeds United Service Crew, Birmingham Zulus, The Red Army, and Millwall Bushwackers rank among the most notorious firms in football hooliganism 's so-called `` golden age ''.
3454 One figure associated with the ICF was Cass Pennant, who authored one of the many books on football hooliganism published in the late 1990s, ` Congratulations You Have Just Met the ICF'.
3456 The former assertion has been disputed by many.
3458 Some graduate degree programs in interior design do not require a bachelor 's degree in a related field.
3459 Although most interior design schools in the United States retain `` Interior Design '' in the program name, some schools have adopted the name `` Interior Architecture '' instead.
3466 Being one of the oldest English-speaking schools in the region, Choueifat has a reputation for a rigorous academic curriculum.
3467 Choueifatis have also been known to go on to attend some of the best universities in the world -LRB- Harvard, Princeton, Stanford, MIT, McGill, Cambridge, LSE -RRB-.
3468 The is still some intervention storage being conducted in the EU, although it is not to the scale of the 1980s.
3469 Some people consider the storage as an essential part of securing the food chain in the event of a poor harvest.
3470 After writing and rehearsing for some months the band played their first live date at the Croydon Underground in December 1985, just prior to the release of their first single `` Rise. ''.
3472 This was to be the most important aspect of all Into a Circle recordings, merchandise and visual representation -- strict attention to detail and total control.
3475 An ` intrinsic' property is a property that an object or a thing has of itself, independently of other things, including its context.
3476 An ` extrinsic' -LRB- or ` relational' -RRB- property is a property that depends on a thing 's relationship with other things.
3477 For example, mass is a physical intrinsic property of any physical object, whereas weight is an extrinsic property that varies depending on the strength of the gravitational field in which the respective object is placed.
3481 These weapons, it was argued, posed a threat to the United States, its allies and interests.
3483 After the invasion, some weapons were found, but not in the quantity that they were expected.
3484 Some U.S. officials cited claims of a connection between Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda.
3485 No evidence of any substantial al-Qaeda connection has been found.
3487 It is believed that this was done so that the new currency would not be seen as a poor substitute to the British currency which circulated alongside.
3492 Much of the film depicts set-related incidents that echo scenes in Truffaut 's ` La nuit americaine' -LRB- English title : ` Day for night' -RRB-, to which ` Irma Vep' owes a large thematic debt.
3501 He prefaces his argument with a couple of anecdotes from bloggers on their changing reading habits, as well as the findings of a 2008 University College London study titled `` Information Behaviour of the Researcher of the Future '' which suggests the emergence of new types of reading.
3502 He cites Maryanne Wolf, an expert on reading, for her expertise on the role of media and technology in learning written languages.
3506 Therefore, Carr purports that the neural circuitry shaped by regular Internet usage can also be expected to be different from that shaped by the reading of books and other page-based written material.
3518 Isiah Thomas has his number 11 retired by the Detroit Pistons and is considered easily the greatest Piston of all time.
3520 Although the Great Sole Bank is permanently underwater, it has been suggested that it may at one time have been visible, perhaps only at low tide, and it remained on maps for some time after it was no longer visible.
3523 There are modern linguists who believe that the Istro-Romanians migrated to their present region of Istria and all the way to Trieste about 1,000 years ago from Transylvania, -LSB- though whether or not there were Romanians in Transylvania 1,000 years ago is disputed -RSB- while extremists would place their origins in present-day Serbia.
3525 There have been recent findings by lay people -- and if they 're not experts, why should their accounts be trusted -- to suggest that the Istro-Romanian people were already present in certain regions of nearby Friuli going back to the 1200s.
3529 In 1904-07 -LRB- the last two years working in Rome -RRB- he painted several variations of ` Krisztus apostolok között' -LRB- `` Christ with the Apostles '' -RRB-, his most significant religious work.
3530 After 1910 he created several decorative paintings, such as ` Cigánylány' -LRB- `` The Gypsy Girl '', 1912 -RRB-, and many portraits and self-portraits, including one of Kossuth in 1931.
3532 It is probably due to this fact that his oeuvre is rather inconsistent ; as he concentrated on teaching, his output diminished in both quality and quantity.
3535 In 2004, undercover reporters from BBC 's programme Panorama secretly filmed Slavkov in a meeting during which he and an associate, Goran Takač, suggested that Slavkov is willing to vote for London 's 2012 Olympic bid and solicit votes from other IOC members in exchange for bribes.
3539 He often gave dinners in the company of dignitaries.
3560 In the early 1990s, the airport 's name was changed to `` Jackson International Airport, '' to reflect the fact that it has the facilities to serve international flights, even though the airport does not currently do so.
3565 The spa had been founded by Nathaniel Bingham on the site of a mineral water spring, some four years earlier.
3568 The expansion included, the addition of The College of Integrated Science and Technology -LRB- CISAT -RRB-, the University Recreation Center -LRB- UREC -RRB-, the Festival Conference and Student Center, the Leeolou Alumni Center, several residence halls, the Chemistry and Physics Building, which houses the chemistry department as well as the department of Physics and Astronomy, and athletic fields.
3569 The East Campus Library, completed in the August of 2008, is one of the most recently added building to the east side of JMU 's campus.
3577 Still it did n't seem to affect his form, and the early nineties were perhaps the time where he produced his best form.
3579 ` Johannes Guillaume Christianus Andreas Marijnissen' -LRB- Oss, 8 october 1952, usually known as ` Jan Marijnissen' -RRB- is a Dutch politician for the Socialist Party -LRB- SP -RRB-.
3582 Because no regular member of the cast of ` Crossroads' had a permanent contract, she had plenty of time to pursue other roles, perhaps most notably that of Monica Downes in the BBC Radio 4 soap opera ` The Archers'.
3588 ` January Magazine' is one of the most respected book-related publications on the Web.
3594 Some fans, however, believe that the reason this episode does n't re-air is the controversial portrayal of Subway and its spokesmodel, Jared, while others believe that the episode was pulled because of how it made light of AIDS.
3597 Blair wrote that the soldier `` will most likely limp the rest of his life and need to use a cane, '' which was untrue.
3603 The period is now widely regarded as being the worst in ` SNL' history.
3606 Nguza was regarded by other members of the Sacred Union -LRB- of which his party was a member -RRB- as a `` traitor '' because of this, and he subsequently left the Sacred Union.
3608 The relationship between Tshisekedi and Nguza deteriorated considerably, and armed clashes, many taking on ethnic dimensions and resulting in considerable loss of life, broke out between their respective supporters, further contributing to the instability and chaos prevalent in the country.
3616 This vision eventually became Anthology Film Archives, and would be considered Hill 's most important contribution to the cultivation of the visual arts.
3619 His work continues to be recognized for its importance to the history of cinema.
3621 Although the show was -LRB- and still is -RRB- quite popular, there have been no plans announced of any DVD releases of Muppet Babies.
3622 One possible reason is that clips from other TV shows and movies -LRB- such as ` Star Wars' -RRB- were used extensively in the Babies' imagination sequences and closet opening scenes and thus could pose difficulties in terms of resolving possible copyright issues.
3625 He was best known as the lead singer and lyricist of the popular American rock band The Doors, and is considered to be one of the most charismatic and influential frontmen in the history of rock music. ''.
3626 He was also an author of several poetry books, a documentary, short film, and three early music videos -LRB- `` The Unknown Soldier '', `` Moonlight Drive '', and `` People are Strange '' -RRB-.
3633 Jimmy Edgar is also rumoured to be part of the anonymous Creepy Autograph along with several other members including Nels Truesdell, Alice Wakefield, and Dutch Master.
3641 Besides being a doctor, Macedo was also a journalist, professor of Corografia and História of Brazil in the College Peter II, and founding partner, secretary and orator of the Historical Institute and Geographic Brazilian, since 1845.
3642 In 1849, he established, with Gonçalves Dias and Araújo Port-Glad, the magazine `` Guanabara '', that the Nebula '' - considered by critics published great part of its poem-romance `` as one of the best ones of the Romanticism.
3656 Hutchison also says that he invented a form of batteries, which he calls `` Crystal Batteries '' or `` Hiroshima cells ''.
3658 These batteries have been labeled by some as over-unity devices.
3660 These are cooked and mixed with a variety of different compounds to vary strength.
3666 Due to inconsistencies in the mixture, it became unstable and exploded covering the lab with powder.
3669 A friend of his alleges it detects `` ghosts '', another uses a variation as a remote lie detector.
3671 Mainstream physicists point out that ` over-unity' is just another word for a perpetual-motion machine, and that the Casimir effect, while a genuine physical effect, has often been invoked by people seeking an energetic `` free-lunch '', in defiance of the laws of thermodynamics.
3676 Pruis brought many different scholarship opportunities to Ball State such as the Whitinger Scholars Program, John R. Emens Scholars, Martin Luther King Jr.. Scholarships, and Undergraduate research grants.
3679 John and Angeline Pruis hosted many university and community events on campus and in the Bracken House as well as being involved in the Fellows Society, Quadrangle Society, Beneficence Society, Cardinal Varsity Club, Friends of the Museum of Art and Friends of Bracken Library.
3688 The changing demographics of the area and Labour 's increasing popularity in Scotland made it a winnable seat, and Maxton 's victory was made more likely by the Conservative Party 's strident opposition of the Scottish National Party which drove some of its voters back to Labour.
3696 It notably did not, however, recommend the abolition of the right for Aboriginal communities to veto proposed mining projects on their land, a change that the mining industry had been heavily lobbying for.
3699 He was killed at the Battle of Flodden in September 1513, along with many other Scottish peers.
3711 It has been argued that without that charge, both agents involved would have received far shorter sentences.
3720 Historians generally consider Hooker, despite his personal faults, as being a talented subordinate general who was ultimately promoted beyond his ability.
3737 Original research articles relating to basic and applied aspects of entomology are considered for publication.
3738 ` Juan Gelman', -LRB- Born in Buenos Aires on the 3rd May, 1930 -RRB-, is considered by many to be one of the greatest contemporary poets, and possibly the most important living Argentine poet.
3742 This has to see with rather extinguished habits for several centuries, of proving the names `` by the four sides '', in order to prove, neither your father neither your mother `` had '' wives either Moslem or Jewish.
3743 Therefore, you are supposed to be `` an old christian '' rather than perhaps a `` new christian '' if your four family names `` sound '' right.
3754 Some opponents of `` corporate personhood '' object to a corporation, particularly a for-profit corporation, being called a person.
3756 Thus, some opponents of `` corporate personhood '' do n't actually want to change the theory, they just want to change the terms used.
3757 This would involve some weighty statutory revision, since legislatures for centuries have used the word `` person '' to include legal entities other than natural persons.
3759 In recent years, legislatures have begun to use other terms like `` legal entity '' when drafting their laws.
3765 Some of them are hand-made and have been embroidered beautifully.
3770 Beauty, vibrant color and utility are combined in these juttis of India.
3777 The KCa2 .2 protein is activated before membrane hyperpolarization and is thought to regulate neuronal excitability by contributing to the slow component of synaptic AHP.
3783 It is renowned for its large caliber, firing a 23 mm round, equating to 6.27 gauge using the American standard of shotgun gauges and approximately 4 gauge using the current European standards, based on the metric ` CIP' tables, making it the most powerful shotgun in use today.
3795 He has played in several bands over the years, such as D +, Brothers Blau, Captain Fathom and Your Heart Breaks.
3801 There he met some people who have gone on to achieve great success in the world of cuisine, such as Pedro Subijana and Ramón Roteta.
3804 Asita had a son named Shandila, from whom the famous Shandilya family line -LRB- Gotra -RRB- started.
3809 Critics allege that Rice 's refusal to grant plea bargains is too stringent and leaves to little room for judicial discretion.
3820 He was one of the show 's most prolific writers, with nine episodes to his name -LRB- including the original series finale, `` The Devil 's Hands Are Idle Playthings '', and the Writers Guild Award-winning episode `` Godfellas '' -RRB-.
3821 Keeler wrote many of the original songs on both ` The Simpsons' and ` Futurama' during his time with the shows.
3823 Kendal is known for Kendal mint cake, a glucose-based type of confectionery reputedly discovered accidentally by Joseph Wiper during his search for a clear glacier mint.
3837 The earliest church on the site is presumed to have been made of wood, being replaced eventually in the later medieval period by a romanesque-style stone church.
3846 It has been rumored that the film Sugar and Spice was loosely based on those events.
3849 During his period at Rogaland Teater this theatre became one of the most central theatres in Norway.
3854 The Archaeology confirms that this site is the location of a North West Company trading posts and lays to rest some inconsistencies between the site and Thompson 's description of the trading post.
3858 Critics of Kotaku argue that many of the posts on the site are not actually newsworthy.
3859 Much of this critiscm stems from the number of posts about video gaming related toys, apparel and accesories, and not video games themselves.
3860 Other posts are argued to be old news, such as the fact that pornographic images of video game characters exist, or that the Ocarina featured in The Legend of Zelda series is a real instrument.
3874 Many of its personnel, such as Chiefs of Staff Seishiro Itagaki and Hideki Tojo, were promoted to high positions in both the military and civil government in the Empire of Japan and it was largely responsible for the creation of the Japanese-dominated Empire of Manchukuo.
3877 Lelouch often cuts away from the main story, if only briefly, to parallel events that are not necessarily crucial to the story but illustrate what is suggested by the radio.
3883 The 1960s and 1970s saw a second population boom, caused by immigration from poorer regions of Spain : however this was not matched by construction of the necessary amenities and it was only in the 1990s that public investment resulted in additional schools, leisure facilities and housing.
3888 Based on winning percentage, the University 's athletics program is consistently one of the best in the nation.
3895 She was the model for the ` Dragon Lady', one of the main villains which appeared in the comic, radio and television series ` Terry and the Pirates'.
3897 The character would heavily influence the stock character whose persona is usually portrayed as a beautiful yet cold-hearted villainess as seen in later popular culture.
3901 The lake 's name in Latin is ` Larius', Italianized as ` Lario', but this name is rarely used ; it is usually called ` Lago di Como' -LRB- literally `` Lake of Como '' -RRB-.
3902 In guidebooks the lake may be variously described as `` Lake Como '', `` Lake of Como '', or `` Como Lake. ''.
3908 Some non-league clubs' reserve sides were later accepted into membership, and with the Football League taking a greater responsibility for youth football in recent seasons, the Lancashire League is now a competition exclusively for non-league clubs' reserve sides.
3910 Even though the Lancaster Red Roses never won the EPBL championship, they drew many fans to the Lancaster Armory, their home court.
3911 Stan `` Whitey '' Von Neida, who set a league record with 46 points in one game and nearly 700 points scored in a 30-game season, was the main draw for many Lancaster fans.
3914 -LRB- This book, which detailed Lell 's attendance at a Landmark Forum and gave an account of mental collapse directly afterwards, has gone out-of-print, and the publisher 's web-site no longer notes Lell as one of its current authors. -RRB-.
3922 Fitzgerald teams with Anquan Boldin to create one of the most dangerous wide receiver tandems in the NFL.
3927 Santa Maria Maggiore has a large area of mosaics, probably of 432-440.
3930 The The apse mosaic is now mostly a Coronation of the Virgin of 1295 by Jacopo Torriti ; probably it was originally all composed of the giant foliage scrolls that remain to the upper sides.
3932 The triumphal arch has the earliest surviving monumental cycle of the ` Life of the Virgin', dedicatee of the church, and is thought to have been put up by Pope Sixtus III -LRB- 432-40 -RRB- to celebrate the Council of Ephesus, where Marian doctrine triumphed over the Nestorians.
3933 Many viewers support laugh tracks because they give a TV show more of a comedy feel than programs without a laugh track.
3938 It is possible that the ancient origin of this order is one of the reasons for its highly diverged morphology.
3942 He is one of the most famous and revered actors of the 20th century, along with his contemporaries John Gielgud, Peggy Ashcroft and Ralph Richardson.
3943 Olivier played a wide variety of roles on stage and screen from Greek tragedy, Shakespeare and Restoration comedy to modern American and British drama.
3945 He is considered by many to be the greatest actor of the 20th Century, in the same category as David Garrick, Richard Burbage, Edmund Kean and Henry Irving in their own centuries.
3946 Olivier 's Academy acknowledgments are considerable -- fourteen Oscar nominations, with two wins for Best Actor and Best Picture for the 1948 film ` Hamlet', and two honorary awards including a statuette and certificate.
3950 Although the shipping industry witnessed some past downturns however current numbers show increasing records and expanding activities.
3954 There is no public access to the station, so neither boarding notalighting is possible there.
3965 In fact, many of his albums have included at least one song dedicated to the suffering masses as well as to people whose upbringing was full of mishaps.
3967 Some people accused him of being political albeit doing so -LRB- being political -RRB- with deliberate obscurity.
3986 Soon Sun Quan led a much more massive force upon Hefei, consisiting of approximately 200,000 men.
3988 However, Zhang Liao feared that long-running uncordial relationships among the three might jeopardize their mission, but Li Dian assured him that affairs of the state should be placed before oneself.
3995 The limitanei were the lighter and less experienced of these two groups, armed primarily with spears and clad in Lorica hamata, and designated with the task of harassing or delaying invading enemies and otherwise buying time for a larger, more capable force of comitatenses to arrive and destroy an invading force.
4003 A fourth area surrounding the Melva Lind Interpretive Center includes cultivated gardens and trees that were introduced into the state from other regions of the globe.
4004 Dragoon has often been thought to be based off Akuma, as he wears Akuma 's monk beads and has Akuma 's diving kick.
4006 Some geographers have called this an `` archipelago, '' and most important cities are on the coast or close to it.
4007 State capitals are also each the largest city in its state, the exceptions being Palmas, the new capital of the recently created state of Tocantins, and Florianópolis, the capital of Santa Catarina ; there are also non-capital metropolitan areas in Sao Paulo -LRB- Campinas, Santos, Paraíba Valley -RRB-, Minas Gerais -LRB- Steel Valley -RRB-, Rio Grande do Sul -LRB- Sinos Valley -RRB-, and Santa Catarina -LRB- Itajaí Valley -RRB-.
4009 Some scholars argue that literacy necessarily includes the cultural, political, and historical contexts of the community in which communication takes place.
4011 The call is several long, moaning `` aaa-rk '', followed by soft trills.
4014 Littlehampton has received a great deal of publicity as the home of the East Beach Cafe, a new building on the seafront designed by Heatherwick Studio.
4020 These two texts made clear the need for a new official English translation of the Roman Missal, particularly because the previous one was at some points an adaptation rather than strictly a translation.
4032 Critics claim that lolicon can contribute to actual sexual abuse of children.
4033 Several countries have attempted to criminalize lolicon 's sexually explicit forms as a type of child pornography.
4034 Others disagree, citing research that suggests a correlation between increased availability of pornographic material in Japan from the 1970s onwards and a decrease in reports of sexual violence, including crimes by juveniles and also the number of assaults on children under 13.
4043 This northermost alignment branched from Watling Street close to the Old Kent Road in what is now the back garden of Number 77, Asylum Road, in Peckham, running parallel to the road for some distance under other back gardens.
4046 Although all cartoons on The Looney Tunes Golden Collection : Volume 2 are presented uncut, it has been reported on several websites dedicated to classic animation that a handful of cartoons in this DVD set feature digital video noise reduction -LRB- or DVNR -RRB- applied artifacting : the noise reduction process unintentionally erases or blurs some of the scenes in the cartoons.
4048 Cartoons in the collection that have been afflicted with DVNR are Bob Clampett 's ` The Big Snooze', Frank Tashlin 's ` Have You Got Any Castles', and Robert McKimson 's ` Gorilla My Dreams'.
4057 These hard-edged, linear styles, evident in New York -LRB- Brooklyn Bridge -RRB-, suggest the possibility of an efficient reframing of the world, as did the political theories espoused in New Masses.
4068 Barry Scheck was also on the defense team -LRB- some believe that Scheck 's involvement may have biased the jury against her because he had previously defended O.J. Simpson.
4071 I-Kuan Tao followers believe that he is the first leader of the `` White Sun '' Era, the era of apocalpyse, thus he is the incarnation of savior Maitreya or Hotei.
4072 In 1918, Lu brought I-Kuan Tao to his hometown Jining, within a few years, Lu managed to attract some 25 disciples, among them Zhang Tian Ran and Sun Su Zhen.
4073 ` Luang Pu Thuat' is probably one of the most revered and well respected Buddhist monks that has ever lived in Siam.
4075 Many believe that amulets created in his image hold great protective powers granting safety in times of distress, especially saving the lives of believers from seemingly fatal automobile accidents.
4077 This is the world 's first 12.2 megapixel compact digital camera and is arguably one of the best compacts ever produced to date.
4079 He graduated from the New York University in 1853, where he was a member of the Eucleian Society, studied law, and was admitted to the bar in 1856 ; but soon abandoned the legal profession, and, after studying theology with his uncle, John Stevens Cabot Abbott, was ordained a minister of the Congregational Church in 1860.
4087 Spiritual LSD is considered an entheogen because it can catalyze intense spiritual experiences where users feel they have come into contact with a greater spiritual or cosmic order.
4088 Some users report insights into the way the mind works, and some experience long-lasting changes in their life perspective.
4089 Some users consider LSD a religious sacrament, or a powerful tool for access to the divine.
4090 Several books have been written comparing the LSD trip to the state of enlightenment of eastern philosophy.
4092 They are known for their exciting melodies and tunes, as well as their ability to combine the sounds of the fiddle, the flute, the uilleann pipes, the guitar, and the bass.
4098 Afterwards, Roger was active with several groups -LRB- notably Mission of Burma and Birdsongs of the Mesozoic -RRB-, as were Ben and Larry -LRB- notably Destroy All Monsters -RRB-.
4100 During the middle of the 7th inning, Josh tries to answer as many viewer e-mails as he can in under 1 minute.
4106 The replacement of MTVX with MTV Jams was decried by many rock music fans.
4107 MTV 's explanation was that, based upon ratings and ` Billboard' chart information, more of the American population would prefer to see hip-hop and R&B music videos, rather than the hard rock videos which MTVX had been created to play.
4109 With the installation of the sugar mills, Maceió started to export sugar, then tobacco, coconut, leather, and some spices.
4119 Despite these claims, many long term practitioners of the diet have themselves developed cancer and subsequently died from it.
4122 Perhaps the most critically acclaimed new feature is the truck stick, which functions like an offensive version of the hit stick from the previous year.
4123 When running the football, a player can push forward the right analog stick to run over the defender, at the cost of risking a potential fumble.
4124 Several features from previous titles return such as hot routes, playmaker features, and franchise features.
4127 Her most famous song was ` Fais-moi mal, Johnny' -LRB- ` Hurt me Johnny' -RRB-, written by Boris Vian.
4130 Given Ireland 's conservative sexual values, Magdalene Asylums were a generally accepted social institution until well into the second half of the 20th century.
4131 They disappeared with the changes in sexual mores - or, as some say, as they ceased to be profitable.
4132 `` Possibly the advent of the washing machine has been as instrumental in closing these laundries as have changing attitudes, '' according to Frances Finnegan.
4139 Hambling describes the piece as a conversation with the sea :' `` An important part of my concept is that at the centre of the sculpture, where the sound of the waves and the winds are focused, a visitor may sit and contemplate the mysterious power of the sea, '''.
4140 The sculpture has caused some division amongst the local community with some complaining that the sculpture obstructs the view or is an eyesore that should be moved to Snape, whilst others say that it enhances the view and is a fitting commemoration of Britten that helps to attract tourists.
4144 This sculpture continues to attract controversy, vandalism and opposition from the local community, who seem to object more to where it has been sited than its visual appearance.
4147 It has a summary jurisdiction to deal with most criminal offences other than serious criminal matters such as murder and sexual assaults.
4154 According to most Mahayana followers, pursuing only the basic path of Hinayana Buddhism is too narrow an aspiration, as it lacks the ultimate moral motivation -LRB- from the Mahayana perspective -RRB- of actively resolving to liberate all other beings from samsara, as well as oneself.
4160 Clarke proved somewhat controversial when he joined the workshop, due to his views that Radiophonic music should be, in his words, `` fine art, '' a philosophy that was not shared by other workshop members at the time.
4169 The signing of a former Liverpool star caused some consternation amongst supporters of both clubs.
4181 They stay out all night until dawn culminating in the iconic shot of Queensboro Bridge.
4189 Early or rare imprints of printed books formed the basis of Special Collections in the areas of arts and social sciences, science and engineering, medicine, agriculture and food sciences, and law.
4190 In addition, several of the subject libraries acquired particular named Special Collections, devoted to particular subjects or preserving the libraries of particular individuals and institutions.
4192 ` Walter Marcellus Lacy', better known as ` Marc Lacy' -LRB- born May 28, 1969 -RRB- is best known for his smooth flowing lyrics in spoken word as well as eloquently written poetry.
4195 There are two locations historians consider his possible birthplace.
4197 The possibility of Korčula being Polo 's birthplace has raised the issue of wether he was an Italian -LRB- Venetian -RRB- or Croat, since the town -LRB- and, indeed, the entire Dalmatian region -RRB- was predominantly Croat -LRB- in modern times Dalmatia, including Korčula, is part of Croatia -RRB-.
4200 GPT was a world leader in many fields, for example Synchronous Digital Hierarchy -LRB- SDH -RRB- technology, and this brought the two companies responsible for developing and building the System X telephone exchange together, which was supposed to make selling System X simpler.
4201 He is recorded as raiding Mercian settlements on the borders of Radnor and as paying a ransom of one penny a head to rescue some of his subjects who had been taken captive in Viking raids.
4204 Maredudd died in 999 and was described by the ` Brut y Tywysogion' as `` the most famous King of the Britons ''.
4209 Marie Louise Marcadet is described as unattractive because she was very thin, but also as a splendid actor and singer ; Johan Henric Kellgren considered her acting divine, Gjörwell wrote : `` The entire soul was created for the Theater '' after having seen her in the play ` Zemir and Azor' by Grétry against Carl Stenborg -LRB- season 1778-1779 -RRB-, and she was mentioned by Carl von Fersen as an example of the meaning of education in his book ` The Improvement of the Swedish Opera and entertaiment', written in 1780.
4210 She played Henriette in ` De bägge girige' by Grétry -LRB- season 1777-1778 -RRB-, Arséne in ` Arséne' by Monsigny with Elisabeth Olin and Kristofer Kristian Karsten and Iphigenie in ` Iphigenie in Aulis' by Glück with Carl Stenborg -LRB- 1779-1780 -RRB-, Cybele in ` Atys' by Piccinni with Carl Stenborg and Kristofer Kristian Karsten -LRB- 1784-1785 -RRB-, Hermione in ` Andromaque' by Grétry with Franziska Stading, Cecilia av Eka in ` Gustaf Wasa' by Naumann with Carl Stenborg, Kristofer Kristian Karsten and Caroline Halle-Müller -LRB- 1785-1786 -RRB-, Ramfrid in ` Folke Birgersson till Ringstad' with Kristofer Kristian Karsten and Inga Aberg -LRB- 1792-1793 -RRB-, and Minerva in ` Alcides inträde i världen' by Haeffner -LRB- 1793-1794 -RRB-.
4217 The album included a song called `` Mari-Johanna '', and some people stated that the lyrics of the song were telling about marijuana.
4220 In the example given, if you create a subclass that you do not want to serialize -LRB- perhaps because it depends on transient state -RRB-, you must resort to explicitly throwing NotSerializableException -LRB- per ObjectOutputStream docs -RRB-.
4223 He has also been a regular member of both the British and, at the Commonwealth Games, English 4 x 100 metre sprint relay teams, to some considerable success.
4226 He is probably best known for his membership in the hard rock band Therapy ?.
4235 Many independent labor unions for correctional employees have formed and left national unions in the past decade.
4237 The California labor union CCPOA is considered the strongest and most powerful labor union in the state.
4238 The third Saudi extension -LRB- 1988-2005 -RRB- saw the building of further minarets, the erecting of a King 's residence overlooking the Mosque and further prayer area in and around the mosque itself.
4241 Video games have in the past generally been seen as an ad-free medium by gamers.
4255 This version ceased publication the same year when the publisher sold its U.S. arm to Primedia, having fared poorly in competition with ` Super Street' magazine.
4257 It is co-owned by Jews and Christian Arabs, and is known for being a symbol of co-existence.
4258 The restaurant is also the favorite dining place of the famous Israeli football -LRB- soccer -RRB- club Maccabi Haifa.
4265 It is also one of the oldest remaining `` traditional style '' residence halls on campus.
4269 The presence of hummocky, radar-bright crater ejecta crossing the radar-dark floor terrace and adjacent outer rim scarp suggests that the floor terrace is probably a giant rotated block that is concentric to, but lies outside of, the original crater cavity.
4271 To the southeast of the crater rim, emplacement of hummocky ejecta appears to have been impeded by the topography of preexisting ridges, thus suggesting a very low ground-hugging mode of deposition for this material.
4272 Meadow was often resentful of her lineage, stemming from a string of failed relationships first with Noah Tannenbaum, a fellow student of mixed race who met with Tony 's racist disapproval, only to leave after his own father seemed concerned with the Soprano family heritage.
4275 Some people can argue that Google News provides a media monitoring service by allowing queries on the number of times a keyword has been mentioned in thousands of publications, based on the publications' websites.
4281 Although small in size when compared to plants found in the tropics, megaherbs are notable because their size is far greater than other herbaceous perennials found growing in the sub-Antarctic islands : generally the harsh weather and soil conditions experienced there have a stunting effect on plants.
4283 Melanie 's photographs are some of the largest images in the world.
4285 Some are face-mounted prints and others are large-format positives backlit in massive light-boxes.
4294 If the membrane receptors are altered directly or deficient for some reason, the signal transduction can be hindered and cause diseases.
4295 Some diseases are caused by membrane receptor function disorder due to deficiency or disorder of the receptor induced by the change in the genes that encode the receptor protein.
4297 Also, when the cell is infected by nonenveloped virus, the virus first binds with certain membrane receptors and then somehow the virus or some subviral component ends up on the cytoplasmic side of a cellular membrane, the plasma membrane for some viruses or the membrane of an endosomal vesicle for others.
4298 In the case of poliovirus, it is known that interactions with receptors in vitro will lead to conformational rearrangements of the virion that result in the release of one of the virion proteins, called VP4.
4300 It is proposed that the conformational changes induced by receptor binding result in the insertion of the myristic acid on VP4 into the cell membrane and the formation of a channel through which the RNA can enter the cell.
4301 Minnie lived to see her reputation revive in the 1960s as part of the general revival of interest in the blues.
4314 No adverse effects of thimerosal have ever been proven, although some allergic reactions have been noted.
4316 Today, with the exception of some flu vaccines, none of the vaccines used in the United States to protect preschool children against twelve infectious diseases contains thimerosal as a preservative.
4318 It is one of the main metro gateways -LRB- along with Metro Polanco -RRB- to the chic and business-related neighbourhood, Polanco.
4320 The Metroliner was wildly successful, some trains having three times as many people trying to buy tickets as there were seats.
4326 ` Mexicano 777' -LRB- born ` Israel Perales Ortiz' -RRB-, is a reggaetón and Latin hip hop artist of Puerto Rican descent.
4329 There are many theories about this.
4331 Here are some of these in no particular order.
4334 His role is Nate 's always assigned the most ridiculous tasks, from fluffing Zak 's shag rugs to re-recording his outgoing voicemail message.
4335 He 's determined to impress Zak and climb higher on the food chain, but Nate sometimes tries too hard to please -- especially with the ladies.
4339 He is also notable for spending seven years in supporting roles under contract to three major studios at once : MGM, Warner Brothers and Twentieth Century Fox.
4340 He considers his best performances the role he played in `` Killer Instinct '' on the television program `` Desilu Playhouse '', along with his roles in the movies `` Westbound '', `` Winterhawk '' and `` Seven Thieves ''.
4342 While at CAA, he was responsible for pioneering the practice of `` packaging '' writers, directors, and actors for motion pictures.
4343 This practice led to CAA and its clients holding significant negotiating leverage over the major studios.
4344 Various industry critics, such as entertainment-securities attorney John Cones in his recent book, Hollywood Wars, maintain that the practice of packaging is an illegal tie-in prohibited by federal and state antitrust laws.
4346 He composed many concertos, notably 25 ` concertos comiques.'.
4355 It has also been suggested that there are two schools of thought among the Republic 's Jedi.
4357 On the other hand, Yoda 's school, which is the dominant school in the Jedi Council, would state that the Force is purely a mystical interconnection between all things -LRB- `` Here, between you ... me ... the tree ... the rock ... everywhere ! Yes, even between this land and that ship ! '' he teaches Luke in ` Episode V' -RRB- and that midi-chlorians are at most a consequence of the ability with the Force, hence the reliance of the Council on true tests of Anakin 's ability with the Force, even though Qui-Gon has certified the large number of midi-chlorians in his blood.
4358 Yoda 's school does have some support for Midi-chlorians being merely the biological way of describing the mystical force because despite the high midi-chlorian count Anakin turned to the dark side failing in the test of mind.
4359 It is already known that Qui-Gon is a pariah among the Jedi, so it would n't be surprising if he had a slightly different view of the Force than the dominant theory.
4360 However, if this were the case, it could be expected that Qui-Gon 's apprentice, Obi-Wan Kenobi, would subscribe to his master 's school of thought.
4366 They were never mentioned in the original trilogy, and many fans believed they diluted the spiritual aspect of ` Star Wars' by making the connection to the Force biological rather than mystical.
4367 However, it may have already been established in the original trilogy that the Force was genetic -LRB- through heredity -RRB- and passed down through families.
4368 Some argue that this was intentionally jarring ; a way to imply that the Jedi Order of the time had become so bureaucratic that even one 's potential in the ways of the Force was measured by a single statistic.
4369 Indeed, it would be only after the events of ` Episode III' that one sees surviving Jedi explaining the Force in mythical terms, although Lucas insists that midi-chlorians were not mentioned in the original trilogy simply because he did not `` get around to it '' -LRB- Episode 1 commentary -RRB-.
4371 During his tenure as the show 's host, Nelson terminated the invention exchanges -LRB- last exchange during episode 519, Outlaw -RRB- and letter readings -LRB- episode 705, Escape 2000 -RRB- that were a staple of the show 's first five years, ending some popular traditions but giving the writers much more freedom in creating the opening and closing sketches.
4376 Upon finding the two inspectors interviewing his driver, who they alleged was double-parked, Wallace allegedly lunged at one of them and was subsequently arrested.
4381 Milk contains casein, a substance that breaks down in the human stomach to produce the peptide casomorphin, an opioid that appears to act as a histamine releaser, and is suspected in some cases to aggravate the symptoms of autism.
4383 Milk that has not received a fat content reduction is rich in saturated fat and cholesterol, which numerous sources have suggested as contributing to an increased risk of atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease when consumed in excessive quantity.
4387 There are some fringe groups debating the amount of calcium from milk that is actually absorbed by the human body.
4390 Several studies have shown that men who drink large amount of milk and consume dairy products may increase their risk of developing Parkinson 's disease.
4391 The reason behind this is, however, not fully understood and it also remains unclear why this is not the case for women.
4392 Several sources suggest a correlation between high calcium intake -LRB- 2000 mg per day, or twice the US recommended daily allowance, equivalent to six or more glasses of milk per day -RRB- and prostate cancer.
4394 A review published by the World Cancer Research Fund and the American Institute for Cancer Research states that at least eleven human population studies have linked excessive dairy product consumption and prostate cancer, however randomized clinical trial data with appropriate controls only exists for calcium, not dairy produce, where there was no correlation.
4402 It can also be argued that the MIST is a more objective test of intelligence than the Turing test, a subjective assessment that some might consider to be more a measure of the interrogator 's gullibility than of the machine 's intelligence.
4403 According to this argument, a human 's judgment of a Turing test is vulnerable to the ELIZA effect, a tendency to mistake superficial signs of intelligence for the real thing, anthropomorphizing the program.
4404 The response, suggested by Alan Turing 's essay `` Can Machines Think ? '', is that if a program is a convincing imitation of an intelligent being, it is in fact intelligent.
4412 It is believed that these movies were cut to better transition the story between ` SEED' and ` Gundam SEED Destiny'.
4413 Others believe also that the special editions were made to correct or add things that were not in the TV series due to time or budget reasons.
4414 It has been mistakenly referred to that these are in fact recap episodes.
4416 The series first premiered in Japan on the terrestrial MBS and TBS networks, where it occupied the Saturday 6 p.m. timeslot, widely considered a prime timeslot ; the anime and its subsequent successor to the timeslot -LRB- Fullmetal Alchemist -RRB- went on to do very well.
4418 Many of these women will have sex with dozens of men a night, and how many of these men do not care in the slightest that the women are, or may be, slaves to the world of sex.
4420 If one would question himself or think about what is going on one may begin to notice something not right.
4421 But since the world of prostitution is in the shadows in America and most of the world, it is an easy area to harvest this enterprise into a huge cash cow.
4427 Less controversially, many would agree that the first signs of modernity were certainly in Machiavelli 's lifetime, which was also the time of Martin Luther, Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, the Borgia popes, Amerigo Vespucci, Leonardo da Vinci, and Henrys VII and VIII of England.
4428 Machiavelli 's political writings are surprisingly open in their criticism of the traditional division of power which existed in Europe, especially Italy, between the Roman Catholic Church and secular government, which was still centered around the Holy Roman Emperor.
4441 Monopropellants are not as efficient as some other propulsion technologies.
4446 ` Moral absolutism' is the belief that there are absolute standards against which moral questions can be judged, and that certain actions are right or wrong, devoid of the context of the act.
4447 `` Absolutism '' is often philosophically contrasted with moral relativism, which is a belief that moral truths are relative to social, cultural, historical or personal references, and to situational ethics, which holds that the morality of an act depends on the context of the act.
4450 She also possesses a gifted intellect, and as a former pupil of Merlin, she possesses a great deal of magical lore, considered one of the greatest sorceresses in Earth 's history.
4458 This was n't however done with malicious intent, in fact, the Simulacra 's personality was notably innocent, being more concerned with the world around it and its own existence than taking sides in any political or ideological struggles.
4459 Critics argue that this page is compromised by weasel words.
4477 The globally integrated enterprise, which some see as the next development in the evolution of the multinational, does away with this requirement.
4479 Some have argued that the Knights Templar, founded in 1118, became a multinational when it stumbled into banking in 1135.
4487 The Terrible Towel has gained much popularity since its invention and `` is arguably the best-known fan symbol of any major pro sports team ''.
4489 Some have advanced the hypothesis that the phrase was originally a notification by the deacon to the people that the consecration was completed.
4490 No evidence has been found to support this hypothesis, nor has any explanation been offered of why, if that was so, the words were later inserted in the midst of the words of Text and rubrics of the consecration of the wine, not at the end.
4494 Many people think that he is responsible for hiding the scandals that showed up from 2005 to 2006.
4496 Můstek A -LRB- completed in 1978 -RRB- has two exits through escalator tunnels -LRB- one on both ends of the middle aisle -RRB- with one vestibule below lower -LRB- NW -RRB- end of the Wenceslas Square -LRB- the preserved medieval bridge can be seen here -RRB- and the other below the central part of the square.
4499 In addition the Sakae shopping area, there is also Osu, a sprawling old-style small-trader shopping area spreading out from the large Osu Kannon, a Buddhist temple that holds flea markets.
4500 The covered streets house stalls selling fashion garments, TVs and alternative medicine give a taste of what Japan might have been like before modernization.
4503 Many ` izakayas' and pachinko parlors can be found in its vicinity.
4504 It was said to be wolf-sized and one of the earliest forms of the order ` Cetacea.'.
4508 It was considered monophyletic by Uhen -LRB- 2010 -RRB-.
4510 Rosenberg novels have been translated into many languages.
4518 The area is popular for sking, with many lifts.
4529 From all offers submitted, AEMO 's systems determine the generators required to produce electricity based on the principle of meeting prevailing demand in the most cost-efficient way -LRB- See also Economic dispatch -RRB-.
4533 Initially, it might seem that since we use base 10 for nearly all calculations, this base would be more `` natural '' than base ` e', but there are several senses in which log ` e' is more `` natural ''.
4536 As a related example, consider the problem of differentiating a logarithmic function : : \ frac -LCB- d -RCB- -LCB- dx -RCB- \ log_b -LRB- x -RRB- = \ frac -LCB- \ log_b e -RCB- -LCB- x -RCB-.
4538 Another sense in which the base - ` e' logarithm is the most natural is that it can be defined quite easily in terms of a simple integral or Taylor series and this is not true of other logarithms.
4541 Accuracy is the most discussed topic on forums.
4542 Navasota is served by the weekly Navasota Examiner newspaper, which has been reporting on the goings-on in Grimes County since 1894.
4544 It is rumored that the car manufacturers were very strict in how their vehicles were to be portrayed in this game, especially considering the `` illegal street racing '' reputation of the tuner culture.
4548 Many musicians who create what is considered `` neo-soul '' prefer to disassociate themselves from the tag, due to the term 's buzzword-like usage.
4549 These artists argue that many record labels, hoping to cash in on the success of the `` neo-soul '' style, simply had A&R departments take R&B singers, give them a bohemian look, and have them state Stevie Wonder, Donny Hathaway, or Marvin Gaye as their favorite artists.
4550 Instead of using the `` neo-soul '' tag, many artists simply refer to themselves as soul musicians.
4552 Though the specifics of the project are largely mysterious and speculative, the Instrumentality Project is an operation initiated by SEELE to instigate an artificial Third Impact in which all human physical life will end and the minds of all humans become united in a single soul.
4554 It could be said to be the project to turn humans into God, which is largely played out in ` The End of Evangelion', before Shinji decides to accept humans apart, and with different AT fields.
4557 Kaworu Nagisa -LRB- Tabris, the seventeenth Angel -RRB- often refers to humans/humankind as `` Lilim. ''.
4570 It includes the ` Director 's Cut' versions of the last sets of episodes, sometimes referred to as the ` New Production Cut' -LRB- NPC -RRB-.
4571 Unfortunately for Western audiences, the vast quantity of bonus material to be found in the ` Renewal' boxed set has not been translated into English, and was omitted from the Platinum Edition, to say nothing of the Renewal box itself.
4572 Also, the ` Platinum Edition' does not include ` Director 's Cut' episodes 25' / 26' and has significantly degraded video and sound quality when compared directly with the ` Renewal' set.
4574 It was released in 1998 and is considered to be the final form of the ` Evangelion' movies.
4576 Currently released and opened from its earlier beta phases, the NC Mall has a variety of wearable grouped into categories : Clothing/Shoes, Accessories, Backgrounds, Trinkets, Superpacks, and Other Items.
4577 All of these picture add-ons expire within a very short time, so if a user wishes to maintain their picture, they must re-purchase the item in question, for the same amount of money.
4579 Some users object to this new addition, because The Neopets Team promised that the site would remain free, but after Viacom purchesed the site, it has been increasingly moving away from that original premise.
4580 Some people are complaining that TNT is giving wealthier people a unfair advantage, as many of the new releases on Neopets are related to the Nc Mall in some way.
4581 With the addition of the new pet rating system, in which other users can rate Neopets, some users are protesting the Nc Mall.
4582 Some users are worried that over time Neopets would start charging money for more features, and that Neopets will become, for the most part, Pay to Play.
4591 It is considered by some to be a shortening of `` never you mind ''.
4592 The Imperial Japanese Army believed that holding the Solomon Islands would be ultimately unsuccessful and that it would be better to wait for an Allied attack on Bougainville which would be much less costly to supply and reinforce.
4595 While New Orleans has always had to consider the risk of hurricanes, they did not pose the existential risk that they do today due to coastal erosion.
4600 Since the beginning of the 20th century it has been estimated that Louisiana has lost of coast -LRB- including many of its barrier islands -RRB- which once protected New Orleans against storm surge.
4604 This can also be stated as any given year having a 1 % chance of having a storm that would cause some degree of flooding.
4611 Mandić sought to transform the ` Serb List into a more civic-oriented party, in order to boost the party 's coalition potential, and even the dropping the ` Serb' prefix from the newly formed party 's name was considered.
4617 Police investigated Labour -LRB- and five other political parties -RRB- for alleged breaches of election-spending rules relating to the 2005 election, but brought no prosecutions, that `` there was insufficient evidence to indicate that an offence under s214b of the Electoral Act had been committed. ''.
4618 Additionally, claims allege Labour used over $ 400,000 of taxpayers' money to produce a number of pamphlets and `` pledge cards '' promoting Labour.
4619 The police decided not to lay a prosecution, preferring instead to warn Labour that similar future offences would risk prosecution, because it seemed clear that a number of other parties had also used similar tactics and it would have appeared unfair to single Labour out.
4621 Newark Academy 's Men 's and Women 's Tennis programs, coached by William `` Arky '' Crook, ` The Star-Ledger' Coach of the Decade for the 1990s, have enjoyed success at the state level for years, and are considered the finest in the state.
4624 However, some critics suggest they are undermined by lower quality media, which do not satisfactorily provide information and critical analysis.
4627 The only way in which the media can be expected to be able to set the agenda is if it is in an area in which very few Americans have direct experience of the issues.
4629 When American military personnel are involved, the media needs to report because the personnel are related to the American public.
4630 The media is also likely to have an interest in reporting issues with major direct effects on American workers, such as major trade agreements with Mexico.
4631 In other cases, it is difficult to see how the media can be prevented from setting the foreign policy agenda.
4635 It was considered one of the major awards and as included in the ` NFL Record and Fact Book' and its winners still appear in the NFL 's Official Encyclopedia, ` Total Football II'.
4638 He formed the notable collective ROBOTS in 2004 with several other New York DJs, establishing a weekly event at Club Deville.
4642 His ideas roiled the information technology industry, spurring heated outcries from executives of Microsoft, Intel, Hewlett-Packard and other leading technology companies, although other commentators defended his position.
4647 The species was originally placed within its own genus -LRB- ` Geopsittacus' -RRB- -LRB- e.g. Forshaw & Cooper, 1989, also Gould, 1865 -RRB-, but most authors now prefer to place it within the genus ` Pezoporus' following Leeton ` et al.' -LRB- 1998 -RRB-, together with the Ground Parrot.
4648 The well-known budgerigar is a not-too-distant relative -LRB- Christidis ` et al.', 1991 -RRB- of these birds.
4658 Among those she trained and choreographed were Bill and Bobbie Irvine, whom she coached in their successful quest for the World Professional Latin Championship, Donnie Burns - the most honoured dancer of all time, Len Goodman, Sammy Stopford and Barbara McColl, Alan and Hazel Fletcher and Walter and Miriam Kaiser.
4665 Although fans of Martin could benefit, fans of Ms. Aguilera were peeved as they felt that they should be able to obtain the song without buying Mr. Martin 's album -LRB- which went against the sneaky plans of Sony to help increase album sales of ` Sound Loaded' by thinking that Aguilera fans would have no choice, but to buy the album. -RRB-.
4666 However, the fans of Aguilera and casual listeners -LRB- who enjoyed the song, but were not really fans of either artist -RRB- were not pleased with this option, and Sony was flooded with complaints over the limited options of release of this single.
4667 To quickly control damage, the free promotional CD Singles of `` Nobody Wants to Be Lonely '' were sent to stores and ordered to be packaged with rubber bands to the original album to entice people to buy the album -LRB- with Sony thinking that people would be more encouraged to buy the album if they could see the free promotional CD Single instead of having to send in proof of purchase to get it -RRB-.
4668 The most recent lymphoma classifications, the 1994 Revised European-American Lymphoma -LRB- REAL -RRB- classification and the 2001 WHO classification, abandoned the HL vs. NHL grouping.
4670 Although Hodgkin 's lymphoma is recognised as being a tumour of lymphocytes of mature B cell lineage, it is still considered separately within the WHO classification.
4677 Some gay groups, Christian groups, anti-sexual abuse organizations, law enforcement agencies and other critics see NAMBLA as a front for the criminal sexual exploitation of children.
4679 Opponents also argue that pubescent children in particular are not capable of giving consent and that the power imbalance between adults and children makes any sexual relationship exploitative.
4684 North Korea is regarded by some as a Stalinist dictatorship.
4687 Relations are strong with other traditional socialist states, Vietnam, Laos, and, often, China, as well as with Cambodia and Burma.
4689 Multiple international human rights organizations, including Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, have accused North Korea of having one of the worst human rights records of any state.
4690 Defectors have testified to the existence of detention camps and reported murder, torture and human medical experimentation.
4691 Northbridge Services Group is alleged to be the successor of the now defunct South African PMC Executive Outcomes -LRB- EO -RRB-.
4692 Northbridge is said to have close links with Aegis Defence Services, the successor of the now defunct PMC Sandline International.
4699 Some of the policies endorsed by NIRS include strict controls on nuclear waste disposal, bans on nuclear weapons and new power plants.
4702 Some have conjectured on the possibility that `` rogue states '' such as North Korea may acquire or manufacture nuclear weapons and use them to attack a foe indirectly through terrorism.
4709 It is unclear whether the division between OS/MFT and OS/MVT arose because MVT required too much memory to be usable on mid-range machines or because IBM needed to release a multiprogramming version of OS -LRB- MFT -RRB- as soon as possible.
4711 All of Oakhill 's infamous productions defy the boundaries set by various amateur and other school productions, with amazing direction and talented casts and crews.
4712 Oakhill College Drama sets a new standard for amateur theatrics, with many productions taking various elements to professional levels.
4713 In Jamaica, slaves from different areas of Africa were brought into contact, creating some conflicts between those who practiced varying African religions.
4714 Those of West African Ashanti descent, who called their priests `` Myal men '' -LRB- also spelled Mial men -RRB-, used the Ashanti term `` Obi '' or `` Obeah '' -- meaning `` sorcery '' -- to describe the practices of slaves of Central African descent.
4716 Obeah also came to mean any physical object, such as a talisman or charm, that was used for evil magical purposes.
4717 However, despite its fearsome reputation, Obeah, like any other form of folk religion and folk magic, contains many traditions for healing, helping, and bringing about luck in love and money.
4722 By some accounts, she herself arranged for Odette to take her place in the mentally ill king 's bed ; by others, Odette was put in the position of royal mistress by higher forces as a means to `` ensure the influence of the Burgundian king ''.
4727 At its core are about eighty works by Shunsuke Matsumoto and Hideo Noda ; there are many works by other artists associated with these two.
4731 The Brazilian palmberry, açaí, contains one of the highest contents known for oleic acid in the pulp of a fruit -LRB- 56 % -RRB-.
4735 Several indigenous tribes occupied the coast of Northeastern Brazil for several thousand years, and the hills of the present day municipality of Olinda had settlements of Caetés and Tupinambá tribes, which were frequently at war.
4741 Returning to their room in the Hotel Ritz around 3:00 a.m., an apparently intoxicated Olive picked up what she thought was a flask of drinking water and accidentally ingested a large dose of mercury bichloride, which had been prescribed for her husband 's chronic syphilis.
4753 After more than 5 years since it 's release, it 's been considered one of the greatest hip-hop songs of all-time.
4754 Though it was not intentioned to be a hot song, it has since become one of his signature songs, along with Life 's a Bitch, The World Is Yours, and even another on the same album, Got Urself a Gun.
4755 Many critics and fans have given positive ratings for this song, and it further cemented Nas' comeback into the rap world.
4758 It is known in Western society as the ` One-child Policy' due to the required payment of a `` social compensation fee '' for couples having more than one child in an urban area.
4759 China 's generally perceived pandemic overpopulation problem, with the associated social and environmental problems, forced the government to take strong unique measures in population planning policy.
4772 She was a pioneer of podcasting, presenting a series of interviews titled ` Living Legends' ; among her interview subjects were former member of The Monkees, Davy Jones, illusionist Uri Geller and, in his first interview for fifteen years, Peter Townshend from The Who.
4781 Stranded travellers were received at several CF bases and stations, including Goose Bay, Gander and Stephenville, Newfoundland and Labrador, and Halifax, Shearwater and Aldershot, Nova Scotia.
4783 CF aircraft also transported Canada Customs and Revenue Agency officials to those locations so stranded travellers could clear Customs and enter Canada -- many of them to accept the hospitality of the communities in which they found themselves.
4785 The raids and their aftermath are today widely considered to be the Canadian equivalent of the 1969 Stonewall riots in New York City.
4787 These evolved into Toronto 's current Gay Pride Week, which is now one of the world 's largest gay pride festivals and celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2005.
4793 The author of the article writes of rumors at the time, and includes some quotes from family members making the claims, but details no evidence that any organs were removed from bodies, much less used for transplants.
4796 First, the organic industry is concerned that the multiplicity of standards might cause consumer confusion and undermine confidence in the integrity of organic products over the long term.
4799 Finally, industry analysts assert that the lack of a consistent U.S. organic standard is complicating and slowing access to a potentially lucrative international organic market.
4802 In 1975 the OSEM made its first tour to the United States, returning continuously for three years starting in 1979, playing in the most important cities.
4806 About six months later, giant American computer company Gateway bought the remains of Osborne, and traded as OSBORNE-Gateway -LRB- then just `` Gateway '' -RRB- for several years, but were unable to recover Osborne 's former dominant position and despite making an honest effort to resolve the outstanding issues left by the Osborne collapse, were unsuccessful in the Australian market.
4808 Wages that were owed to Osborne 's employees were paid out, probably as part of Gateway 's buying price for the company.
4811 Most details of his life are legendary.
4813 His relative -LRB- some say brother -RRB- was Alexander Peresvet, although it is likely that this relationship is merely the product of later hagiographic tradition.
4819 A variation on the Otley Run in which participants are expected to drink nothing but shots in each pub along the route is referred to by some as a `` Shotley Run ''.
4825 Lack of consistent archaeological investigation has left the layout and extent of the Roman site unclear, though many works of art have been removed.
4826 Some finds are shown in the ` Antiquarium' on the site.
4836 Both the high school and the middle school have sports teams which are referred to as Oxford Wildcats.
4837 A trend exists, particularly among some young people, to apply the term only to ` New Zealand-born' persons of predominantly European descent as a means of distinguishing themselves from more recent settlers and emphasising their temporal and spatial distinctiveness, but acceptance of this notion remains still far from universal.
4838 Common alternative designations for Pākehā in New Zealand include `` New Zealand Europeans '' or `` European New Zealanders '' and sometimes '' ` Caucasian' New Zealanders '' or `` White New Zealanders ''.
4839 There is an increasing view by many New Zealanders that the ongoing focus on racial/ethnic identity is detrimental to the future of the country.
4840 Many New Zealanders considered ` Pākehā' by some described themselves as ` New Zealanders' in the last census.
4841 Thus rejecting both the Pākehā and ` European' or ` NZ European' labels and considering themselves as having a New Zealander identify regadless of racial background.
4843 Their alleged and unproven tendency to assault public polls and rankings often results in their coming in ahead of distributions dozens of times more popular -LRB- though such popularity is difficult to measure -RRB-.
4847 Many have lumped current neoconservative foreign policy with leftist foreign policy.
4849 Most paleoconservaties believe supporting Israel is not in the United States' interests and that it is hypocritical for neoconservatives to support massive immigration at home while staunchly supporting an ethnocentric state that automatically admits ethnic Jews but not non-Jewish Palestinians, and does n't currently allow civil marriages involving Jews and non-Jews -LRB- although it recognises them if performed outside the country -RRB-.
4850 Some paleoconservatives, like many leftists, also support the moral right of the Palestinians above that of Israel.
4855 Some have speculated that the aircraft was shot down.
4861 During his engineer 's career in pre-war Egypt, he developed a deep friendship with the Belgian expatriate Vladimir Penjakoff - later to be known as Popsky, creator and leader of a World War II SAS special unit nicknamed Popsky Private Army -LRB- PPA -RRB- - with whom he toured the Libyan and Egyptian desert : the same desert that would see few years later the two friends facing each others as ennemies when the World War II broke out.
4868 Not long after that, the river widens out and drops over probably the most famous and well known waterfall in the Mount Rainier area, Narada Falls, and soon after is crossed by the Mount Rainier Highway.
4877 His government, named on November 12, included 36 members, with seven opposition parties participating ; three of these parties-the African Independence Party, the African Convention for Democracy, and the Panafrican Sankarist Convention-had already participated in Ouedraogo 's government, while four were new to the government, including the Alliance for Democracy and Federation -- African Democratic Rally -LRB- ADF-RDA -RRB-.
4878 The two types of child rearing that are introduced by Dr. Annette Lareau -LRB- sociologist and professor at the University of Maryland -RRB- are concerted cultivation and natural growth.
4879 Concerted cultivation parenting is associated with those parents who have traditionally white collar jobs and those considered to be part of the middle class.
4882 It is important to understand that the only defining factor as to how a child is raised is the amount of money that his or her parents have.
4883 There is not a complete correlation between money and child rearing practices ; however, wealth and income are the most significant defining factors as to which child-rearing practice will be used.
4891 Even in countries traditionally seen as nations of smokers, opinion polls have shown support for bans, with 70 % of those in France supporting a ban.
4893 ` Patek Philippe & Co.' is one of the most famous and expensive brands of wrist watches in the world.
4895 Many watch collectors regard Patek Philippe timepieces as the best in the world.
4896 Over the years, Patek Philippe watches have been worn by a number of notable individuals, including members of royalty, movie stars and tycoons.
4897 The company is one of the few notable watch companies that still make all movements in house.
4899 Founded in 1936, it is one of the oldest and largest credit unions in the country.
4901 A shared vision of most PWMN members is what they call the open source internet which is a global computer network where its users are at the same time the ISPs, contribute to its development -LRB- hardware/software -RRB- and is free for everyone to access.
4902 The concept is similar to the one followed in the open source software context.
4903 The first steps towards this vision is to connect all the already well-established wireless community networks of all the major Greek cities together, thus forming one of the largest -LRB- at least area-wise -RRB- wifi networks ever.
4907 At the outset of the Revolutionary War, Henry led militia against Royal Governor Lord Dunmore in defense of some disputed gunpowder, an event known as the Gunpowder Incident.
4916 Perfluorohexane is considered biologically inert and chemically stable.
4921 ` Permeable paving', also called ` pervious paving' or `` porous pavement '', is a term used to describe paving methods for roads, parking lots and walkways that allow the movement of water and air through the paving material.
4922 Although some porous paving materials appear nearly indistinguishable from nonporous materials, their environmental effects are qualitatively different.
4924 Porous pavements have been called `` the holy grail of environmental site design '' and `` potentially the most important development in urban watersheds since the invention of the automobile ''.
4928 ` Peter Stephen Paul Brook' -LRB- born 21 March 1925 -RRB- is a British theatre and film director and innovator, and considered one of the most influential and revered theatre practitioners.
4930 His best achievement was his 18-17 victory against Stephen Hendry in the world championship - perhaps one of the best world finals ever.
4932 Jackson is well known for an attention to detail, a macabre sense of humour and a general playfulness to the point where ` The Lord of the Rings' conceptual designer Alan Lee jokingly remarked `` the film is almost incidental really ''.
4934 The town 's amateur dramatics group is known as the ` Petworth Players', and their past productions have included ` Allo ` Allo, The Lion, The Witch And The Wardrobe, and The Sleeping Beauty.
4944 Early in 1972, the government was confronted with student protests against the dominance of French culture and the many economic problems of Madagascar.
4951 With these skills students study simple kinematics, free fall, Newton 's laws of motion, Newton 's law of gravity, momentum, experimental analysis and qualitative descriptions of parabolic motion, simple machines -LRB- e.g. the lever, gears, pulley -RRB-, kinetic energy and potential energy, power and work, an introduction to direct current electricity and simple electrical circuits, magnetism, wave motion -LRB- mostly hands-on and experimental and qualitative, very little math -RRB-, the nature of the electromagnetic spectrum.
4962 Like most other popular brands like Electrolux and iRobot, it is rather intuitive to use and maintain ` picaBot eVo2L'.
4971 When it is time to recharge, it will make 2 circles before moving straight to any solid object -LRB- most probably a wall -RRB- and start to move in clockwise direction locating the charger.
4972 The advantage of this method of docking station -LRB- charger -RRB- seeking is that the successful docking rate is higher where the disadvantage is that it usually take longer time for it to reach the docking station.
4973 Users need to take note that loose items like string, cable and clothes that can possibly get caught by the spinning brushes are to be cleared off the floor where the robot is supposed to cover..
4976 The process to get in involves many art projects, which are made for existing members of NAHS.
4977 The members in the club sport the very well known `` SFK '' sweatshirts.
4985 This move virtually created oligarchic system, disenfranchising a great majority of the citizens and provoking some unrest.
4991 It is possibly a close relative to the dwarf flannelbush species found in Nevada, Yuba and Butte counties, but ongoing studies have yet to determine to what degree.
4994 Total species population is estimated at 2,000, which makes the flannelbush one of the rarest plants in California.
4997 Zhang, Li, Wang, Zhao and Sun are among the most common Chinese surnames.
5000 The Planck energy is not only the energy needed -LRB- in principle -RRB- to probe the Planck length, but is probably also the maximum possible energy that can fit into a region of that scale.
5002 The most prevalent aesthetic/cosmetic procedures are listed below.
5003 Most of these types of surgery are more commonly known by their `` common names. ''.
5012 Chemical peels commonly involve carbolic acid -LRB- Phenol -RRB-, trichloroacetic acid -LRB- TCA -RRB-, glycolic acid -LRB- AHA -RRB-, or salicylic acid -LRB- BHA -RRB- as the active agent.
5024 These medical tourists get their procedures done for up 50 percent or more cost savings in countries including Cuba, Thailand, Argentina, India, and some areas of eastern Europe.
5027 Many suggest that the removal of the 20 GB model in North America was probably made to save with manufacturing costs, as there is a difference in cost between the two models of around $ 30.
5029 Plumbing installation and repair work on residences and other buildings generally must be done according to plumbing and building codes to protect the inhabitants of the buildings and to ensure safe, quality construction to future buyers.
5031 In the United Kingdom the professional body is the newly Chartered Institute of Plumbing and Heating Engineering -LRB- educational charity status -RRB- and it is true that the trade still remains virtually ungoverned ; there are no systems in place to monitor or control the activities of unqualified plumbers or those home owners who choose to undertake installation and maintenance works themselves, despite the health and safety issues which arise from such works when they are undertaken incorrectly - see ` Health Aspects of Plumbing -LRB- HAP -RRB-' published jointly by the World Health Organization -LRB- WHO -RRB- and the World Plumbing Council -LRB- WPC -RRB-.
5034 It is thought that tin was brought here from Dartmoor via the Plym and traded with the ancient Phoenicians.
5043 On the grounds that the Dayton Agreement 's framework is outdated, many groups have come forth with ways to redevelop the divisions of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
5069 Many others think pornography 's role in technology adoption -LRB- like the size of actors' body parts -RRB- have been greatly exaggerated.
5070 For example according to Forbes.com, adult video income was only $ 1 billion in 2001 calling into question the impact any adult studio, even a major one like Playboy, could have on a videotape or DVD format war.
5071 ' `` The industry is tiny next to broadcast television -LRB- $ 32.3 billion -RRB-, cable television -LRB- $ 45.5 billion -RRB-, the newspaper business -LRB- $ 27.5 billion -RRB-, Hollywood -LRB- $ 31 billion -RRB-, even to professional and educational publishing -LRB- $ 14.8 billion -RRB-.
5072 When one really examines the numbers, the porn industry -- while a subject of fascination -- is every bit as marginal as it seems at first glance. '''.
5083 They are often strong in visual organization and perception, including reading and vocabulary, but their spoken language -LRB- sometimes affected by hypernasality -RRB- is generally poorer than their comprehension.
5085 Some schools attempt to develop these feelings through the use of lessons tailored specifically to preteens' developing worldview.
5086 For example, debates on touchy moral issues -LRB- i.e. drugs or alcohol -RRB- are sometimes introduced in the upper elementary school grades, as well as classes on current events.
5087 Preteens generally prefer certain brands, and are a heavily targeted market of many advertisers.
5089 Many of these brands include clothing and music.
5093 Since German reunification, Prenzlauer Berg 's urban apartment block structures have, for the most part, been renovated.
5094 This and rising property values have led to more affluent residents moving into some areas of the borough.
5097 This yeast extract is believed by many to remove wrinkles from skin and heal dry, cracked, and irritated skin.
5100 All development within the application boundary was submitted with some matters reserved, except for the 1875 Covered Market and Fish Market for which full details were submitted.
5113 Business booms for the little newspaper, as `` Mr. Smith '' out-scoops other reporters from the rival ` Gazette' on dramatic news stories, many involving disasters.
5115 It is so successful that a man from ` The Gazette', Mr. Franklin, tries to buy up the little newspaper.
5117 Not many days later, there is a fire at ` The Gazette', and they accuse someone at ` The Courier' of arson.
5119 When it come to highway privatization there can be some strange bedfellows.
5133 The Encyclopadia Britannica writes of him : After Careme, the two men who probably had the greatest impact on French gastronomy and that of the world at large were Prosper Montagné and Georges-Auguste Escoffier.
5134 Montagné was one of the great French chefs of all time, and he achieved a secure place in gastronomic history by creating ` Larousse Gastronomique' -LRB- 1938 -RRB-, the basic encyclopaedia of French gastronomy.
5139 In the Republic of Ireland, there was some sympathy for the IRA movement in the early 1970s.
5140 However, the movement 's appeal was hurt badly by more notorious bombings widely perceived as atrocities, such as the killing of civilians attending a Remembrance Day ceremony at the cenotaph in Enniskillen in 1987 and the death of two children when a bomb exploded in Warrington, which led to tens of thousands of people demonstrating on O'Connell Street in Dublin to call for an end to the IRA 's campaign.
5145 This increase is widely perceived as support for the IRA ceasefire and some commentators maintain this support would decrease if the IRA returned to violence -LRB- although this did not happen during the brief resumption that occurred between the 1994 and 1997 ceasefires -RRB-.
5146 Psalter Lane is considered by many who study there to be a campus with a great atmosphere, sense of community and personality.
5150 They cite reasons such as the lack of amenities nearby ; currently ` The Psalter' pub is the only non-university commercial outlet immediately available to students, and the distance to the university from the centre of Sheffield, where much of the Student accommodation is based.
5152 But Protestants have also applied the word ` Apocrypha' to texts found in the Roman Catholic and Orthodox scriptures which were not found in Hebrew manuscripts.
5154 Accordingly, there arose in some Protestant Biblical scholarship an extended use of the term ` pseudepigrapha' for works that appeared as though they ought to be part of the Bibical canon, because of the authorship ascribed to them, but which stood outside both the Biblical canons recognized by Protestants and Catholics.
5155 These works were also outside the particular set of books that Roman Catholics called ` deuterocanonical' and to which Protestants had generally applied the term Apocryphal.
5156 Accordingly, the term ` pseudepigraphical', as now used often among both Protestants and Roman Catholics -LRB- allegedly for the clarity it brings to discussion -RRB-, may make it difficult to discuss questions of pseudepigraphical authorship of canonical books dispassionately with an unsophisticated audience.
5157 To confuse the matter even more, Orthodox Christians accept books as canonical, that Roman Catholics and most Protestant denominations consider pseudepigraphical or at best of much less authority.
5158 There exist also churches that reject some of the books that Roman Catholics, Orthodox and Protestants accept.
5159 The same is true of some Jewish sects.
5162 The psychology of science is defined most simply as the scientific study of scientific thought or behavior.
5163 Some key figures currently in the psychology of science are William Brewer, Kevin Dunbar, Gregory Feist, Michael Gorman, David Klahr, Barbara Kosloswki, Deanna Kuhn, Sofia Liberman, Dean Keith Simonton, Will Shadish, Frank Sulloway, Paul Thagard, Ryan Tweney, Ron Westrum, and Wendy Parker.
5164 The lyrics tell a story of the ageless dragon Puff and his playmate Jackie Paper, a little boy who grows up and loses interest in the imaginary adventures of childhood and leaves Puff alone and depressed.
5166 The name Pulham is thought to mean the farmhouse or enclosure by the pools or streams.
5169 In modern medicine, certain kinds of heart attacks, such as ventricular fibrillation, may be identified by feeling the pulse and characterizing its speed, strength, and rhythm.
5172 Certain kinds of cardiac dysrhythmias -LRB- irregular rhythms -RRB-, such as ventricular tachycardia or atrial fibrillation, may be diagnosed by overt patient symptoms and feeling of the pulse, and characterizing its speed, strength, and rhythm.
5183 Theories of Quantum mind, themselves viewed sceptically by some scientists, have given rise to concepts like ` Quantum meditation'.
5184 It is reported that some 86,000 ballots were disqualified because `` Yes '' side scrutineers ruled them invalid for unclear reasons.
5186 Blue Oaks are medium-sized trees growing up to 15 -- 25 m tall, usually with a somewhat irregularly-shaped crown, and a trunk 0.5 -- 1 m in diameter.
5187 The bark is light gray with many medium-sized dark cracks ; from a distance, it can appear almost white.
5189 The blue color can be subtle but becomes much more evident when viewed next to one of the live oaks with whom it shares its range, which tend to have much greener leaves.
5191 It prefers dry soil and plenty of sunlight.
5193 Vishnu is said to have an Eagle -LRB- Garuda -RRB- and a Serpent -LRB- Adisesha -RRB- as his vehicle.
5194 Sprinkle became convinced of the phenomenon 's actuality, and was perhaps the first to suggest a link between abductions and so-called cattle mutilations.
5203 In 1943, the most notable event was a very important administrative one.
5205 As the name of the former suggests, its primary aim was defence of the UK from attack, with the latter concentrating on supporting ground forces after the eventual invasion of Europe.
5208 Most of the new network would be made up of 28 re-built Chain Home systems, while the rest were taken from the existing selection of Chain Home Low, Chain Home Extra Low and the various GCI radars that had formerly served special purposes.
5211 When the Rajput soldiers of Prithviraj Chauhan fell in battles against Shahabuddin Ghori or Muhammad Ghori and the empires of Ajmer and Delhi were destroyed, some Rajputs became captive and could see no way of saving themselves except embracing Islam and they came to be known as Ghori Pathans.
5212 Some Rajputs were let off on the recommendation of a Royal gardner or Mali who represented captive Rajputs as Malis.
5213 In this way many Rajputs became Malis.
5222 Of Ramanuja Kavirayar 's European Tamil students, the most prominent were Pope, Miron Winslow, William Hoyles Drew and C. T. E. Rhenius.
5224 He not only taught them Tamil literature and grammar, but also collaborated with them in some of their important works.
5225 Ramanuja Kavirayar 's role in the preparation of Winslow 's -LRB- 1862 -RRB- English-Tamil dictionary is acknowledged in Winslow 's preface : `` In the preparation of this work, the compiler has been aided at different times by competent natives.
5231 Because we are a small, comprehensive high school within a large suburban school district, we are able to provide opportunities for students that many other schools can not.
5241 Several of the Xbox 360 's launch titles were developed by Rare, including ` Kameo', ` Viva Pinata', and ` Perfect Dark Zero', all of which were critically acclaimed.
5248 There are many small businesses and many people commute to larger centres for work -LRB- see section on Road transport -RRB-.
5253 Jeanne Chall 's model of the stages of reading acquisition is well known.
5261 They were one of a few football firms which had a fearsome reputation in the 1970s and 1980s.
5265 This species is among the most social of the nocturnal primates.
5277 He was elected as MP for Willesden East with a majority of less than 2,000 votes in the 1964 UK general election, taking the seat from Conservative Trevor Skeet, and Harold Wilson 's Labour government took power with a slim majority of only five seats, which was quickly reduced to three.
5282 Some of his favourite foods are hamburgers and Kabab Koobideh.
5284 It has been said that he was born in 1970.
5285 The book combines algebraic rigour with clear explanations, many of which are illustrated with diagrams, and with a diagramatic notation for Wythoff constructions.
5286 The black and white plates in the book show solid models of three-dimensional polyhedra, and wire-frame models of projections of some higher-dimensional polytopes.
5292 Skeptics suggest that claims of reincarnation originate from selective thinking, confabulation, and the psychological phenomenon of false memories.
5295 In some cases these memories appear to be corroborated, since the child 's memories are shown to match closely with actual people and events.
5312 From a national security standpoint, such a situation is untenable, and calls for the immediate incubation of long term energy solutions prior to a ` peak oil' scenario which would force the economy to grinding halt.
5317 Viewers will have the opportunity to share their opinions on Masterson 's various platforms and pitch themselves to be a part of his presidential Cabinet by uploading videos directly to the Republicrats robust, interactive destination site.
5318 It is not widely known that the epicenter of the 1994 Northridge Earthquake was actually in Reseda.
5321 Other mutant forms can result in a protein that is abnormally regulated and constitutively active -LRB- ` on' all the time -RRB-.
5322 This might be due to removing a regulatory domain or mutating a specific amino residue that is reversibly modified -LRB- by phosphorylation methylation or ubiquitination -RRB-.
5332 This was in reference to how poorly Foley thought he was booked during his WCW career when Flair was on the booking committee.
5335 Iorio has also participated in several projects outside metal music, such as with folk musician León Gieco, Rubén Patagonia and Los Fabulosos Cadillacs' bassist Flavio Cianciarulo -LRB- they recorded an entire album called `` Peso Argento '' -RRB-.
5336 He also had a great friendship with the late argentinian guitar player Norberto Napolitano, also known as Pappo, who invited Iorio to record some songs for his `` Pappo y Amigos '' album.
5337 He was commissioned by the University of Cambridge to obtain Greek and Latin fonts for their classical books, and accordingly he had cast in Holland those beautiful types which appear in the Cambridge books of that date.
5340 In 1694, he designed an edition of Philostratus, but abandoned it to G Olearius, -LRB- Ohlschiger -RRB-, `` to the joy, '' says FA Wolf, `` of Olearius and of no one else. ''.
5346 ` Richard Greene' is a violinist -LRB- aka ` fiddler' -RRB- and `` one of the most innovative and influential fiddle players of all time ''.
5348 In 1969, along with Andy Kulberg and Jim Roberts, Greene formed the rock group Seatrain, whose most notable song would be the 1971 rock hit '' '13 Questions' '', from Seatrain 's self-titled album produced by Beatles producer George Martin.
5350 He bequeathed his library to his successors as bishop, and it remains at Hartlebury Castle, but its fate remains uncertain, now that the castle has ceased to be used as the bishop 's residence.
5354 Some chroniclers claimed that this was because a local peasant had uncovered a treasure trove of Roman gold, which Richard claimed from Aimar in his position of feudal overlord : however, modern historians are skeptical of the story, which has the flavour of an ` exemplum', or moralising fable.
5359 Several characteristics were considered from an epidemiological perspective as being correlated with the condition.
5360 Men and women were equally affected and there was no apparent connection to occupation or school attended.
5361 The individuals obtained their meals at several different sources, and other individuals who lived elsewhere and purchased their food at these same places had not been affected.
5363 There were dog kennels in the area and some tenants had dogs as pets, but an inspection of the animals found no ticks or other insects.
5370 Thus it showed similarities to types of collars which in former times were used in order to chain animals or prisoners -LRB- see the collar in the image at right -RRB- and are still common in the BDSM scene today.
5378 Both sides of the debate receive a respectful hearing at various places in the novel, and neither is presented as indisputably correct, but by the end of her story Mia has clearly come around to the view that the Ships have an obligation to the colonies.
5379 Ritonavir is manufactured as ` Norvir' by Abbott Laboratories.
5380 Research that led to the drug 's development was financed by a $ 3,500,000 federal grant through the National Institutes of Health -LRB- NIH -RRB- and over $ 200,000,000 by Abbott Labs.
5381 Most of the $ 200,000,000 figure cited by Abbott paid for clinical trials-despite NIH offering to pay for them-because Abbott was concerned about `` public interest '' responses to the high prices they projected Norvir would command..
5383 In 2003, Abbott raised the price of a Norvir course from USD $ 1.71 per day to $ 8.57 per day, leading to claims of price gouging by patients' groups and some members of Congress.
5400 Apart from a multitude of enterprises in Malaysia, his companies have investments in many countries throughout Asia.
5403 Critics complain that Novak has been inconsistent as he insists it would violate journalistic ethics to reveal the source of the Plame leak, but later called on CBS to reveal the source of the memos that were part of the larger news story dealing with the president 's alleged evasion of National Guard service.
5404 Other journalists have insisted that the CBS sources lost their right to confidentiality when the memos were proven to be forgeries.
5406 In addition to producing all of the albums for The Apples in Stereo, he 's produced work for the Olivia Tremor Control and the Minders, but is most well-known for his work on Neutral Milk Hotel 's critically lauded ` In the Aeroplane Over the Sea'.
5411 Dickens and Edward Chapman 's statements of the incident, -LRB- albeit without explanation of how they knew -RRB- state that Seymour worked on the new plates well into that night, and was found shot the next day.
5413 When Chapman re-issued the, by now best seller ` The Pickwick Papers' in book form, he now included a disclaimer statement from Dickens stating ;' `` Mr. Seymour never originated or suggested an incident, a phrase, or a word to be found in this book.
5414 Mr. Seymour died when only twenty-four pages of this book were published, and when assuredly not forty-eight were written ; ''' that' `` All of the input from the artist was in response to the words that had already been written ; ''' In continuation of the A’Beckett smears ;' `` that he took his own life through jealousy, as it was well known that Seymour 's sanity had been questioned. '''.
5416 Although this ` Seymour Controversy' cruelly deprived Seymour of his estate and entitled royalties, it also launched the illustrious career of the, at that time, unknown ` Boz'.
5418 The proliferation of `` intelligences '' he has been suggesting followed the lead of Gardner -LRB- 1983 -RRB- has been copied by other theorists who have been coming up with related fanciful notions -LRB- e.g., Goleman, 1995 - emotional intelligence -RRB-.
5424 Inspired by the Chuck Berry tune `` You Ca n't Catch Me '', it bore too much of a melodic resemblance to the original -- and Lennon took the first line -LRB- `` Here come old flat-top '' -RRB- for the new lyric.
5440 In the first half of the 19th century, urban life grew considerably and there was a Western-type modernisation policy, due to which the architecture of the Romanian lands became a combination of Romantic and Neo-Classical elements.
5443 His works, the Lahovary House or the Central Girls School in Bucharest, are among the most prominent achievements of this movement.
5444 It is due to an opposite trend that they designed houses and administrative buildings in the spirit of French eclecticism -LRB- the Justice Palace, the Central Post Office -RRB- or by adapting classicism -LRB- the buildings that now hosts the House of the Men of Science, or the Cantacuzino Palace in Bucharest -RRB-.
5445 Critics argue that Dworkin 's theory of social equality lacks tangible `` bite '' in that it does not adequately address obvious examples of governments that have failed to implement political systems that entitle every citizen to be respected.
5446 These critics believe that many tangible, controversial and everyday wrongs would have to be more ` visible to' and subject to critique by someone like Dworkin who calls for '' ` taking rights seriously' ''.
5448 These critics charge that Dworkin does not focus enough on key rights issues.
5449 Specifically, Dworkin scholars and students question whether Dworkin 's legacy will suffer because he has not explicitly discussed, for example, the substantial amount of U.S. citizens who are excluded from participating in its national electoral process.
5450 These critics have asked whether Dworkin goes out of his way to avoid applying his theories to obviously difficult questions of the '' ` here and now' ''.
5454 Suozzi said, '' `` To honor her memory and that of her important work, today we are renaming this vital transit hub for one of the most important figures in American history. ''.
5455 In addition to the renaming of the terminal, a permanent exhibit of the civil rights movement will be constructed, telling the story of the struggle for equality through the photographs of photojournalists and artists who covered the unrest of that era, including the late Moneta Sleet, Jr., Jim Peppler -LRB- a photographer for Newsday -RRB-, and Herbert Randall.
5470 Pilots were advised to avoid use of the cut out switch as it would eventually damage the engine.
5475 It was announced in October 2005 that CBS Radio would use Rover to fill some of the morning vacancies on their radio stations created by the departure of Howard Stern to Sirius Satellite Radio.
5478 The move to Chicago was broadly considered a misstep both on the part of Rover and CBS Radio.
5491 Giuliani also has been criticized by vocal opponents from his mayoral days, homing in on Giuliani 's support for the NYPD during the racially-charged cases of Abner Louima and Amadou Diallo and his crackdown on porn shops in Times Square.
5511 The post office was the beginning of growth for Rio Segundo ; many travelers would stop at Rio Segundo prior to crossing the river.
5513 Its short life span -LRB- thirty-odd episodes -RRB- was in part because it was considered too violent at the time, although the violence it depicted is actually mild by today 's television standards.
5530 No prints of the film have been preserved so the film can be considered a lost film.
5531 The original screenplay has also been lost.
5532 However, some plot descriptions are still known based on contemporary newspaper advertisements of the film.
5535 They eat principally Arctic charr, which exist in many deep water locations in the Northern hemisphere.
5537 ` Sam `` The Alaskan Assassin '' Hoger' -LRB- born ` Samuel Earl Hoger' on June 28, 1980 in Eagle River, Alaska -RRB- is a mixed martial arts fighter most notable for appearing on the first season of ` The Ultimate Fighter', a reality television series produced by the Ultimate Fighting Championship and broadcast on Spike TV.
5542 He was eliminated by an early and questionable stoppage after destroying Forrest Griffen in the first round who went on to be the winner of the Light Heavyweight division, Forrest Griffin.
5544 Southworth was considered to be the best light heavy weight on the show by Chuck LIddell, Rnady Couture, and Dana White, due to his Pre fighting experience he had at the time.
5552 In his next match at UFC Ultimate Fight Night 4, he lost to ` The Ultimate Fighter' season two competitor Rashad Evans in another questionable desicon split decision.
5560 Former militants Lázaro Kavandame, Uria Simango, Paulo Unhai, Kambeu and Father Mateus Gwengere were arrested, under the pretext that they had allied themselves to elements of the white community during the 7 September 1974 upheaval against the transfer of power to FRELIMO -LRB- Mateus Gwengere was kidnapped in Kenya, where he had sought refuge, and brought secretly to Mozambique -RRB-.
5561 The same wave of arrests caught Joana Simeao, who, in opposition to FRELIMO 's one-party system, had created a political party, GUMO -LRB- ` Grupo Unido de Moçambique' -- United Group for Mozambique -RRB-, proposing a model based on pluralism and free market -LRB- which FRELIMO would ironically adopt years later, when it eventually renounced to marxism -RRB-.
5566 A fact that perhaps is not widely known is that it was in Táchira, and not in Zulia, that the first oil wells were excavated in 1875 -LRB- located in the Petrolea sector close to Rubio -RRB- -- a procedure done in those days by hand and with buckets.
5572 In the dairy industry, Leche Táchira is one of the most consolidated industries in the country ; this company is based in San Cristobal.
5576 As well as being used by Milan and Inter, the Italian national side also plays occasional games there and it has also been used for the 2000-01, 1969-70 and 1964-65 Champions League/European Cup finals.
5581 It is thought, by some, that the sandbox is a measure taken by Google to avoid spam websites abusing search engine optimisation techniques to reach the top of the index, getting barred by Google, and then repeating the process using a different domain.
5587 Another entrant into the satellite television circuit in Africa is MyTV Africa, a sister company of Dubai based Strong Technologies broadcasting all over the sub-saharan part of the continent and offering family oriented programming at much more affordable rates than competitors.
5588 Satellite television has been far more successful in Africa than cable, primarily because the infrastructure for cable television does not exist and would be expensive to install since majority of Africans can not afford paid cable television.
5589 Furthermore, maintaining a cable network is expensive due to the need to cover larger and more sparsely populated areas though there are some terrestrial pay-TV and MMDS services.
5591 In many areas of the world satellite television services supplement older terrestrial signals, providing a wider range of channels and services, including subscription-only services.
5597 ATS-6, the world 's first experimental educational and Direct Broadcast Satellite, was launched in 1974.
5614 Schumann 's music suggests the struggle between good and evil at the heart of Goethe 's work, as well as Faust 's tumultuous search for enlightenment and peace.
5617 The second part of the work begins with stark contrast : on the one hand, the lively, fresh music of Ariel and the spirits, calling to Faust to savor the beauties of nature ; on the other hand, in the scene following, Schumann 's intense orchestration and hints of the supernatural in the score bring to the fore Faust 's delusions of hearing a new world being created and his rapturous calls to for an everlasting present.
5618 The final scenes, bringing the work to its placid yet unsettled conclusion, hold some of Schumann 's best choral writing.
5622 It flooded many people out of their homes.
5630 Recipients of recurring Schumann Foundation grants during the 1990s, ranging from under $ 100,000 to more than $ 5 million annually, include the Tides Foundation and Tides Center, Environmental Working Group, Union of Concerned Scientists, Natural Resources Defense Council, Western Organization of Resource Councils, Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy, and the Center for Media and Democracy.
5633 This important service is provided so that patients who are physically or medically unfit to travel to hospital out-patient appointments by any other means can still make their appointments.
5641 Inspired by the dissolution of a relationship, ` Sea Change' received glowing reviews upon its release and is considered a major highlight in Beck 's canon of released works.
5646 Australian seafood product, like most of other countries', includes both wild catch fisheries and aquaculture production.
5654 Some feel that SSRIs are prescribed by overzealous doctors or psychiatrists in cases where their use is only marginally indicated.
5657 The FDA 's currently required packaging insert for SSRIs includes a warning -LRB- known as a `` black box warning '' -RRB- that a pooled analysis of placebo randomized controlled trials of 9 antidepressant drugs -LRB- including multiple SSRIs -RRB- resulted in a risk of suicidality that was twice that of placebo.
5662 Some critics associate the use of the term ` Serbophobia' with the politics of Serbian nationalist victimization of late 1980s and 1990s as described, for example, by Christopher Bennett.
5663 According to his critics, Serbian nationalist politicians have made associations to Serbian `` martyrdom '' in history -LRB- from the Battle of Kosovo in 1389 to the genocide during World War II -RRB- to justify Serbian politics of the 1980s and 1990s ; these associations are allegedly exemplified in Slobodan Milošević 's Gazimestan speech at Kosovo in 1989.
5664 The reaction to the speech as well as the use of the associated term ` Serbophobia' is a matter of heated debate even today.
5665 This season was arguably one of the most dominant performances by any female tennis player in recent years.
5675 This gives support to the view that ` black' does not refer only to the colour of the handle but implies ` covert' - as in -LRB- as stated previously -RRB- blackmail or black market.
5676 When the Highlander visited a house on his travels having deposited all his other weapons at the front door he did not divest himself of his concealed dagger, since in these far off days it was unsafe to be ever totally unarmed, not because he feared his host but rather because he feared intrusions from outside.
5678 The Sifsei Chachamim is considered such an essential super-commentary on Rashi that there exists a summary work on it, called `` Ikar Sifsei Chachamim. ''.
5684 This device was called a Crysalis and was worn as a helmet, after a 3 year period of training the would leave the crysalis phase and be initiated as technomages by receiving implants that give them the ability to scan, effect and in some cases use as a most deadly weapon.
5689 Stratfordians respond that the assumption has long been that Droeshout worked from a sketch.
5691 Art historians see nothing unusual in these features.
5697 She is considered a poet of the Flarf poetry movement.
5698 If shaving cream is not available, facial soap may be used in its place ; however, this is often considered an inadequate substitute for proper shaving soap as the lather often far too runny and inconsistent.
5699 Some people prefer not to use shaving cream at all, and may shave simply with water, for example, after a hot shower.
5704 Shea Fahy is regarded as one of the heroes of the Cork senior football team that was most successful between 1987 and 1995.
5713 It is unique among cities in New York, because its city charter provides that, for many purposes, it is to be treated as if it were a village, and that the Vernon town government continues to have jurisdiction over the territory of the city.
5723 Much of the land around Shoshone is lava rock, which can make excavation for building problematic, and which limits the amount of useful farmland.
5737 Meanwhile, she took part at a beauty contest in Chennai, where she won the `` Miss Chennai-Top Model 2003 '' title.
5744 The film 's positive portrayal of publicly funded health care and of the health systems of Canada, the United Kingdom and Cuba has been criticized by a number of commentators, predominantly those on the right, who say that Moore 's portrayal of publicly funded health care in other countries was inaccurate and misleading, and that health care in these countries is characterised by long waiting lists and unavailability of new treatments.
5753 Wild mustard is highly invasive and has been reported to be poisonous to livestock.
5754 It is eaten by the caterpillars of some Lepidoptera, such as the Small White -LRB- ` Pieris rapae' -RRB-.
5756 Sir-Tech is best known for the ` Wizardry' computer role-playing game series.
5760 While the trust and affection in which Rama held his wife never wavered, it soon became evident that a -LRB- perhaps small -RRB- section of the citizenry of Ayodhya found the fact of Sita 's long residence in captivity, under the power of Ravana, a circumstance difficult to accept.
5767 The diagnosis was sometimes applied to dissidents who were not in fact mentally ill, so that they could be forcibly hospitalized in mental institutions and subjected to treatments including powerful antidepressants and electroconvulsive therapy.
5768 The book revolves around a young New Englander, Amy Delatour, a teenage girl of French Acadian-English lineage, who often goes into a fugue stage where she believes she is a tormented soul named Ange-Marie, a French Acadian in exile in eighteenth century Connecticut who had been separated from her beloved husband, Paul.
5783 The Sociology of Social Problems By Paul Burleigh Horton, Gerald R. Leslie page 59 -LRB- cited as an example of a standard propaganda device : `` giving an idea -LRB- or person -RRB- a bad name, so it will be rejected without examining the evidence. '' -RRB-.
5787 includes many health care systems from the United States' Medicare program, to the Cuban national health care system and the British National Health Service.
5797 However, these batteries do have certain advantages that outweigh this disadvantage : They are easy to miniaturize -LRB- for example, they can be constructed in thin-film form -RRB-, and there is no problem with electrolyte leakage.
5798 They tend to have very long shelf lives, and usually do not have any abrupt changes in performance with temperature, such as might be associated with electrolyte freezing or boiling.
5799 The English dub of Sonic X, produced by 4Kids Entertainment, has been met with some controversy among fans of the games for several different reasons.
5801 The Sound Blaster cloned the AdLib, and added a sound coprocessor for recording and play back of digital audio -LRB- likely to have been an Intel microcontroller relabeled by Creative -RRB-.
5802 It was incorrectly called a `` DSP '' -LRB- to suggest it was a digital signal processor -RRB-, a game port for adding a joystick, and capability to interface to MIDI equipment -LRB- using the game port and a special cable -RRB-.
5803 With more features at nearly the same price, and compatibility as well, most buyers chose the Sound Blaster.
5805 Most of the southern South American colonies of Spain, including Argentina, Chile, and Perú, fought their wars of independence under José de San Martín -LRB- also known as `` the Liberator '', especially in Argentina -RRB-, another influential military leader and politician.
5808 Some have speculated that during this meeting Bolívar would have refused to share command of the combined forces, and this may have contributed to San Martín 's withdrawal from Perú and subsequent settlement as a farmer in Mendoza, Argentina.
5816 For much of the Middle Ages and until late in the 18th century woollen manufacture was Devon 's most valuable industry.
5817 Spinning and weaving of serge was a major cottage industry in South Zeal and in adjacent villages, where many of the cottages had large ground floor rooms to accommodate the spinning wheels and looms.
5821 In a time when the network primarily showed old cartoons from the vast Ted Turner-owned animation library, the network had some `` package '' or anthology shows like ` Toon Heads', ` Down Wit Droopy D', and ` Late Night Black and White'.
5822 Some would argue that Cartoon Network 's first original series was ` The Moxy Show', which starred Bobcat Goldthwait and Penn Jillette as a 3D dog and flea, respectively, who introduced more old cartoon shorts.
5828 From the mid-16th century to the mid-17th century, a time when Europe was torn apart by Catholic-Protestant strife, there began to appear from the pens of various European Protestant intellectuals, who generally had minimal or no direct access to or experience of the Inquisition, what has come to be known as the Black Legend, as part of the Protestant polemic in support of the Reformation.
5838 Speed cushions have several distinct advantages over similar traffic calming devices.
5842 Buyers will then invite suppliers to register online, and open the event for a set period of time so that suppliers can bid.
5843 At the end, the buyer awards the contract to one of several suppliers.
5844 The award can be based on price, delivery time -LRB- the time it takes the supplier to fulfill an order -RRB-, or other factors such as quality or how closely the product meets the needs.
5849 The name `` International '' was scope to identify a club where `` all '' could play, regardless of origin, race or social status.
5852 The findings point to the squash bee being more effective and suggest that the current practise of hiring colonies of honey bees to perform this task may be unnecessary.
5856 Many were inspired by the soulfulness while others found his lack of technical skills on the various instruments got in the way of the message.
5857 Located at 4900 Manchester Avenue, the -LRB- TCSRC -RRB- opened in 2003, and is known by many as `` the Taylor Building ''.
5865 Many viewers felt the loss of her and several other original cast members contributed to the rapid demise of the show.
5869 Critics of ` USA Today' stated Ward `` brought a sense of joy, if fleeting, to the show ''.
5870 In an article about who annoyed House the most, ` Entertainment Weekly 's Michelle Kung, stated that Stacy annoyed House third most, ranking behind Amber Volakis -LRB- Anne Dudek -RRB- and Michael Tritter -LRB- David Morse -RRB-.
5871 However, Alan Sepinwall, of the ` Star-Ledger', commented that although he finds Ward a `` talented '' actress, her character, along with prior, and later, recurring characters, was `` humorless '' and `` determined to ruin the audience 's fun right along with House 's ''.
5888 -LRB- `` Calculus of names '' is sometimes used instead of ontology, a term widely employed in metaphysics in a very different sense. -RRB-.
5890 Simons clarifies something that is very difficult to determine by reading Leśniewski and his students, namely that Polish mereology is a first-order theory isomorphic to what is now called classical extensional mereology.
5895 ` The Wall Street Journal' reported that such a large number of workers announced plans to view premiere screenings, that many companies shut down on the premiere day.
5896 Many fans began waiting outside cinema theaters as early as a month in advance of ticket sales.
5900 The Starwood Festival is generally considered to be the largest annual Neo-pagan gathering and festival on the East Coast of the United States.
5917 As the show progressed, viewers saw a less favorable view of LaGrossa as she took on a harsher strategy that required her to vote out some of her members in her alliance during the merger.
5919 Many claim the show was edited to make her look like a more villainous character, a stark comparison to her sweetheart persona in ` Survivor : Palau', but whether it was true or not, the claims managed to make some justice as her popularity soon became neck to neck with Danni Boatwright in the road to the Final 2.
5923 There were reports that Marbury and Thomas actually came to blows on the team plane, and that Marbury essentially threatened to blackmail Thomas within hearing range of teammates.
5924 Following the incident and Marbury 's return to the team after 1 missed game in mid-November, Knick fans have consistently chanted `` fire Isiah '' and and have constantly booed virtually all of the Knicks, especially Stephon.
5925 As of Thanksgiving, 2007, the dysfunction and drama have been accompanied by 8 straight Knickerbocker losses, and the newspapers are filled with stories that Isiah 's job may be in jeopardy and that the Knicks would like to trade Marbury.
5926 However, there is general agreement that he will be difficult to trade, in view of the fact that his contract has two years remaining, and that his salary for those years is approximately $ 42 million.
5929 The school is supported by the Swedish and Latvian governments as well as other sponsors, including a variety of corporations and George Soros Open Society Institute.
5930 The future of Strathaven town centre is deemed by some to be under threat from proposals for a massive Sainsbury 's on the edge of the town on the old Auction Mart site.
5933 Conversely there is also some thought that perhaps a successful retailer may actually convince residents that they do not have to travel to nearby towns for shopping, thereby supporting the local shops indirectly.
5941 Over the past years, various methods -LRB- ELISPOT assay, intracellular cytokine staining, secretion assay -RRB- have been developed for the indentification of T-cells, but only major histocompatibility complex -LRB- MHC -RRB- procedures allow identification and purification of antigen-specific T cells independent of their functional status.
5942 There is no unanimous opinion in the Russian scientific community with regards to the exact date of this chronicle 's compilation.
5943 It is generally considered that it was written either in 1620-1630 or 1668-1673.
5944 Some historians believe that parts of the Stroganov Chronicle are based on the Yesipov Chronicle, which was written in 1636.
5963 Most people did not think that the Rams even belonged on the same field with the Steelers.
5965 One sports writer even suggested that Bradshaw throw left-handed and the Rams should be allowed to play with 12 men on the field to make the Super Bowl more competitive.
5966 Almost immediately after superheroes rose to prominence in comic books, they were adapted into Saturday movie serials aimed at children, starting with 1941 's ` The Adventures of Captain Marvel', which has been hailed as the best example of the film format.
5970 With many saying it was better, and rose the bar for any follow-up, to Superman Returns which was released a year before.
5971 Many agreed that the first of DC 's line of animated films was better than what Marvel did for theirs as the film uses whatever it takes to make a PG-13 rated movie feel like one with the blood, the battles, and it 's matured themes and story.
5972 Many ended up liking Anne Heche 's voice for Lois, thought Adam Baldwin did a good job for Superman, and loved James Marsters' portrayal as Lex Luthor as a twisted villain.
5973 Many also thought the battle between Superman and Doomsday was epic and handled well too.
5977 She has been singing since 1983 with many music directors.
5980 She also has sung many Hindi songs for A R Rahman including ` Hai Rama' ` Rangeela', ` Latka Dikhadiya' ` Hindustani', ` Sunta Hain' ` Pukar', ` Dola Dola' ` Dil Hi Dil Mein', and Jannat Hai Yeh Zameen ` Rakht' among others.
5990 It is thought the Min were pushed north hundreds or even thousands of years ago by war with the southern Gogodala peoples, who were a strong warrior nation that currently reside on the plains of the central Fly area of the Western Province.
5994 Still today there are many ferry line between Uno port and Takamatsu, Shodoshima and Naoshima Islands.
5996 Original design was to have this central dual carriageway to serve as the Autostrada A4 -LRB- motorway A4 -RRB-, and by each side another separated single carriageway to serve as local beltway -LRB- similar to what was built around Bologna -RRB- : but, high costs for a motorway that should not have so much traffic -LRB- after Venice, it could go only to Udine and Trieste, at that time the border with the Iron Curtain, which was heavy garrisoned in the event of an invasion from the countries of Warsaw Pact -RRB-, and the opposition of conservationist groups to a double dual carriageway running inside a city, made the project to be stopped at a single dual carriageway, serving both as Autostrada A4 and local beltway.
5998 It 's been also reported that the company have several open lawsuits from publishers and networks who claim to have problems with Targetpoint regarding lower payments, or no payments received at all.
6010 The other major event is the technical fest `` Edge '', a technical extravaganza of events ranging from Robotics to Gaming.
6011 The college also publishes an annual printed magazine named `` Graffiti '' and several weekly wall magazines which are displayed in the walls of the floors.
6019 Teja started his association with Telugu film industry with some miscllaneous tasks on the sets.
6020 Later worked hard on his way to become a cinematographer and also worked as an assistant director under Ram Gopal Varma for some time.
6027 The current version of the statute is found principally at 47 U.S.C. 227.
6038 This temple then underwent further construction by King Herod, leading it to be called Herod 's Temple by some.
6045 The ` Terra' was not large, it formed a basically contiguous zone around the hill of Montecassino, but it was valuable land and the site of many battles in many wars.
6050 Bracy has written numerous articles on public affairs issues for many periodicals, including ` The New York Times', ` St. Louis Post-Dispatch', and ` The Washington Post'.
6051 ` Terrorism in India' can be attributed to India 's many low intensity conflicts within its borders.
6067 In Thailand, Sanskrit is read out using the Thai values for all the consonants -LRB- so ค is read as ` kha' and not -LSB- ga -RSB- -RRB-, which makes Thai spoken Sanskrit incomprehensible to sanskritists not trained in Thailand.
6072 Since in a parallelogram adjacent angles are supplementary -LRB- add to 180 ° -RRB- and ABC is a right angle -LRB- 90 ° -RRB- then angles BAD, BCD, and ADC are also right -LRB- 90 ° -RRB- ; consequently ABCD is a rectangle.
6073 The Awaien Show is basically a parody show based on current issues in Pakistan, the show includes fake commercials, spoofs of tv shows, fake interviews of famous politicians, gund of the week, most wanted, and most importantly `` Disco To You ''.
6075 So far, he has parodied Ataullah Essa Khan Khailvi, Salman Taseer, Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari, Pakistani Ex-President Parvez Musharraf, Pakistani Ministers Rehman Malik, Raja Parvez Ashraf, Pakistani Opposition Leaders Imran Khan, Maulana Fazlul Rahman, Nawaz Sharif, Shehbaz Sharif, TV Persons Talat Hussain, Anwar Maqsood Cricketer Inzimam-Ul-Haq and Naseem Ashraf And Anchors Such As Dr. Shahid Masood, Hamid Mir and Tariq Aziz have been parodied -LRB- all by Mir Muhammad Ali -RRB-, to name just a few.
6084 The Muir translations make use of wording that is often considered `` spiritual '' in nature.
6085 In one notable example, the Muirs translate the description of the castle as `` soaring unfalteringly '' where Harman uses `` tapered decisively ''.
6087 Some critics note this as further evidence of the bias in the translation leaning toward a mystical interpretation.
6089 This edition was published as advanced rules for the first edition, but is sometimes considered as the second edition, which is not true.
6091 The Coopers, a family of Christian archaeologists, are recruited by President Al-Dallam, a greedy oil sheik, to journey to the bottom of the dragon 's throat, where many other expeditions have met with gruesome deaths, never having unravelled the mystery of what lurks at the bottom.
6094 After some stakeout and a few scares, they realise that this ` Dragon 's Throat' is more dangerous than they initially expected, but they journey down anyway, to be met by an earthquake and some paranormal activity, and the Door.
6104 Each person who is able to use magic usually has a certain `` gift '', or specific type of magic they can use.
6105 Particularly powerful magicians are known as Magi, and though most of the Magi encountered are evil, this is not always the case.
6108 This quantity of people is often implied to be very small, while the Dust Factory 's topography is immense, encompassing lakes, forests, mountains, and a wide field covered by dry grass.
6109 In the midst of this field, which is implied to be the center of the Dust Factory, is a circus pavilion whose Ringmaster is hinted to be a figure of some authority and becomes almost an antagonist.
6113 The grandfather, who is apparently learned in the ways of the Dust Factory and appears to be a master of its laws, which differ in some ways from those of the ordinary world, becomes an advisor and storyteller.
6127 This episode is unpopular among some Simpsons' fans because it drops the issue of Springfield Elementary 's injustice to Bart and barely states how Bart got back into the school.
6137 ` The Jamestown Foundation' is a Washington-based think tank whose stated mission is to `` inform and educate '' policy makers about events and trends which it regards as being of current `` strategic '' importance to the United States.
6139 However, given the tone of its articles, it could be claimed that the foundation usually takes a rather Western Cold War approach.
6151 At the time the book is based, 1950, many people would have frowned upon Jenny, a white girl, becoming friends with a black skinned girl.
6153 The football venue at the Saffrons is said to be one of the best in Sussex and the ground plays host to many county cup finals at youth and intermediate level.
6157 The reddish sky in the background was possibly inspired by the aftermath of the powerful volcanic eruption of Krakatoa in 1883.
6159 Some speculate, that the person in the foreground may be the artist himself who might not be screaming but protecting himself or itself from the scream of Nature.
6160 By placing his hands on his ears, Munch might be desperately trying not to hear this scream that is putting him in some kind of panic attack.
6161 Thus, the position in which he portrays himself could be considered a reflex reaction typical of anyone struggling to keep out distressing noise, whether actual or imagined.
6162 It is possible that intense waves of infrasound produced by Krakatoa 's initial blast may have contributed to his overwhelming anxiety and panic, and are thus one of the ultimate sources of inspiration for the painting.
6166 As she, determined despite the dangers, followed her leads, Dana befriended ` Roger Hudson' was a former senate leader and billionaire who had some strange connection to Taylor Winthrop, and his wife, ` Pamela Hudson'.
6170 The Thrawn trilogy', also known as `` The Three Book Cycle '' and the '' ` Heir to the Empire' trilogy, '' is a series of best-selling novels written by Timothy Zahn.
6173 The series is generally regarded by many as the beginning of the new generation of Star Wars novels, as many more novels were written after its success, including the ` Jedi Academy Trilogy' and others.
6174 Because the books were written a full decade before the prequel trilogy, some of the information on the Clone Wars and Darth Vader 's biography have since been contradicted, with various retcons being supplied in other works.
6179 This huge structure took five weeks to build prior to the commencement of principal photography and was said to be the largest set built for a production in New Zealand at the time.
6192 As a parody of the Rat Pack or Brat Pack, they were often as memorable as Stern 's regular airtime celebrity guests.
6193 Wack Packers tend to be unusual in some way, such as blatantly racist, mentally disabled, sexually deviant or having a comical voice or appearance.
6194 Not every regular guest is considered a member of The Wack Pack, nor are staff members like Robin Quivers, Fred Norris Gary Dell ` Abate, Artie Lange, or the now-departed Stuttering John.
6197 Richards is leading the sessions and most songs seem to be written by him, and both Hopkins and Jones indulge in creating elaborate soundscapes, with Brian Jones' parts created on the Mellotron being especially important for the sound and atmosphere of the album.
6210 Concerns were also raised by a law professor on whether it was realistically possible to enforce such a code, whether it would lead to dangers of entrapment, and whether the informal position of the government not to enforce the code would reverse overnight.
6216 In 1746, Clap expelled Samuel Cooke from the Yale Corporation for his role in setting up the separatist congregation in New Haven.
6221 Although they succeeded in finding some of the mutineers, and Hayward evidently performed well, it was an unfortunate voyage, ending with ` Pandora' shipwrecked, and for the second time Hayward found himself without a ship in an open boat making for safety.
6228 They are large birds, but mid-sized by the standards of their order, ranging from the Dwarf Olive Ibis -LRB- ` Bostrychia bocagei' -RRB-, at 45 cm -LRB- 18 in -RRB- and 450 g -LRB- 1 lb -RRB-, to the Giant Ibis -LRB- ` Thaumatibis gigantea' -RRB-, at 100 cm -LRB- 40 in -RRB- and 4.2 kg -LRB- 9.2 lb -RRB-.
6229 It was originally released through Avantgarde Music, but was re-released through several others.
6233 The film follows Bond 's mission to find two NATO nuclear bombs stolen by SPECTRE, who hold the world to ransom for ₤ 100 million in diamonds, in exchange for not destroying an unspecified major city in either England or the United States of America -LRB- later revealed to be Miami -RRB-.
6238 Along some shorelines, the solar tide is the only important tide, and ordinary 12 hour clocks suffice since the high and low tides come at nearly the same time every day.
6251 Years later Boxing Monthly would cite this decision as one of the 10 most controversial in history.
6256 The most intense hurricane, Dean, tied for the seventh most intense Atlantic hurricane ever recorded as well as the third most intense Atlantic hurricane at landfall.
6262 Wikipedia is considered by some to be a timesink due to its addictive qualities.
6265 ` Grizzly Man' is generally considered to be a critical take on Treadwell, his methods and his character ; many people claim that ` Grizzly Man' makes Treadwell look mentally unbalanced.
6268 You may check some of his recent works on this website.
6271 Different types of smokeless tobacco carry different risk profiles.
6273 One thing is abundantly clear : a large body of science supports the conclusion that smokeless tobacco products of the sort used in Sweden -LRB- snus -RRB- are significantly safer than cigarettes.
6274 Sweden has the lowest level of tobacco related illness in Europe, is the only country which has reduced its smoking below the WHO 's target level, and is the only EU country in which snus -LRB- a Swedish smokeless tobacco cured in such a way as to minimize the most important classes of carcinogens -RRB- is legal.
6275 It should be noted, also, that all data in Sweden indicates that the direction of `` movement '' of tobacco users between products is toward snus, and away from smoking, thus refuting claims that cigarette companies favor introducing snus -LRB- or other popular Western smokeless products - all of which have been documented to be safer than cigarettes -RRB- with an eye towards getting people habituated to cigarettes at a later time.
6276 On the contrary, it 's very clear that cigarette companies wish to introduce smokeless products in Europe because they realize that a safer product will appeal to customers and to society in general, thus making it possible to turn a profit even as cigarette crackdowns gain momentum.
6277 Luckily, the interests of the tobacco companies and of society in general intersect in this case - the availability of snus products, as has been proven in Sweden, leads to a reduction in cigarette smoking and a reduction in tobacco related illness.
6293 In July 1988, the band 's debut album' Y Kant Tori Read' was released and was widely panned by critics and snubbed by mainstream audiences, leaving Amos dejected and humiliated.
6295 She also recorded a song called `` Distant Storm '' for the film ` China O'Brien' ; in the credits, the song is attributed to a band called `` Tess Makes Good '' with `` additional vocals by Ellen Amos. ''.
6304 The practice of total war has been in use for centuries, but it was only in the middle to late 19th century that total war was identified by scholars as a separate class of warfare.
6306 Judicially, probably the most famous example of a tracing claim is ` AG for Hong Kong v Reid' -LSB- 1994 -RSB- 1 AC 324, -LSB- 1994 -RSB- 1 NZLR 1 -LRB- PC -RRB-, where Mr Reid, then the Solicitor General for Hong Kong, received bribes for passing information to organised crime in Hong Kong.
6309 When he was caught, Mr Reid admitted that the money was subject to a constructive trust, but argued that he should only be liable to repay the amount of the bribes, and then any profit attributable to the increase in value of the land in New Zealand was not connected with his wrongdoing.
6310 However, the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council held that the government of Hong Kong 's claim to the money could be traced into the land, and thus the claimant was entitled to the full value of the land, as without his wrong, Mr Reid would never have made those profits and it would be grossly inequitable for him to keep them.
6311 Female lead, Edwina Booth, became infected, probably with malaria, during filming.
6315 TraderWars has been described by some as a hybrid between Texas Holdem poker and trading.
6318 British analysts in World War I noticed that the call sign of German Vice Admiral Reinhard Scheer, commanding the hostile fleet, had been transferred to a land-based station.
6319 Admiral Beattie, ignorant of Scheer 's practice of changing callsigns upon leaving harbor, dismissed its importance and disregarded Room 40 analysts' attempts to make the point.
6321 If traffic analysis been taken more seriously, the British might have done better than a ` draw'.
6325 Harry Hinsley, the young Bletchley Park liaison to the Admiralty, later said his reports from the traffic analysts were taken much more seriously thereafter.
6332 It has been suggested, however, the volume of diplomatic traffic to and from certain consular stations might have indicated places of interest to Japan, which might thus have suggested locations to concentrate traffic analysis and decryption efforts.
6334 It is unclear if this deceived the U.S. ; Pacific Fleet intelligence was unable to locate the Japanese carriers in the days immediately preceding the attack on Pearl Harbor.
6336 Radio operators normally assigned to carriers, with a characteristic Morse Code `` fist '', transmitted from inland Japanese waters, suggesting the carriers were still near Japan.
6340 In addition the GPS system uses many more satellites than were used with TRANSIT, allowing the system able to be used continually, whereas TRANSIT provided a fix only every hour or more.
6346 Four wheel drives are the most popular means of transport, as they can easily navigate the steep slopes in the region.
6347 Many vintage Land Rovers ply in the route.
6348 Also Maruti Omni and several SUVs are common.
6351 Some persons believe diarrhea is the body 's defense mechanism to minimize contact time between gut pathogens and intestinal mucosa.
6352 In several studies, antimotility agents have been useful in treating travelers' diarrhea by decreasing the duration of diarrhea.
6355 Adverse complications -LRB- toxic megacolon, sepsis, and disseminated intravascular coagulation -RRB- have been reported as a result of using these medications to treat diarrhea.
6356 Travis has appeared in numerous films and television shows, most notably his own reality show, ` Meet the Barkers', with his ex-wife Shanna Moakler which debuted in 2005.
6358 In 2003, he appeared in an episode of MTV 's ` Punk 'd', a ` Candid Camera' - esque television show, in which he took part in a set up bareknuckle boxing match ; he also appeared and spoke alongside Linkin Park-vocalist Chester Bennington on MTV 's ` Icon' show honoring heavy metal band Metallica in May of that year.
6364 However, Lott broke ranks with many conservatives when he said that Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld should resign within a year.
6366 Many Capitol Hill observers believe Lott blames the Bush White House, especially GOP political strategist Karl Rove, for the loss of his post as Senate leader.
6370 Many political commentators inferred that because Lott expressed support for Thurmond 's campaign, Lott was implicitly supporting racial segregation.
6373 Lott also maintained for many years an affiliation with the Council of Conservative Citizens, which is described as a hate group by the Anti-Defamation League and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
6375 This followed from the work of Willebrord Snell in 1615-17, who showed how a point could be located from the angles subtended from ` three' known points, but measured at the new unknown point rather than the previously fixed points, a problem called resectioning.
6385 Triphos forms complexes with many transition metals.
6395 In the novel 's future solar system, Neptune 's moon Triton supports one of several human societies independent from Earth, which has developed along radically libertarian lines in some ways : though a representative government exists, it has virtually no power to regulate private behavior, and citizens may choose to live in an area where no laws apply at all.
6401 It is possible for both players to raise in the same trick -LRB- the leader before leading to a trick and, if accepted, the follower before replying -RRB-.
6403 Eugenicus 's murals are regarded as one of the best examples of the late Paleologian art.
6409 While sporting advanced graphics and sound capabilities above and beyond the existing 8-bit console market, some think it was underpowered compared to competing 16-bit consoles such as the Sega Genesis and Super Nintendo, however, various games released for the Turbo Grafx-16, especially on the CD format, showed that it had both strengths and weaknesses in comparison to those competitors.
6412 The flatness of the countryside has allowed 80 % -LRB- approximately 100 km -RRB- of the track to be built at ground level, with a small amount of line built in cuttings, approximately 15 % -LRB- about 20 kilometers -RRB- on viaducts, and about 5 % -LRB- nearly 5 kilometers -RRB- in cut-and-cover tunnel.
6413 Among the most important structures is the 3.8 kilometre-long Santhia Viaduct and the 600 metre-long Pregnana Milanese Tunnel.
6415 It has been said that dancers John Jarrott and Louise Gruenning introduced this dance as well as the Grizzly Bear at Ray Jones Café in Chicago, IL. around 1909.
6418 After 1912 however they had to endure many assimilation measures first from Serbians, and then from Albanians.
6426 Somewhere around this time, Twisted Sister updated its feminized image with a more grotesque look that distinguished them from other glam metal bands of the era.
6430 Core planes were typically stacked in order to store one bit of a word per plane, and a word could be read or written in a single operation by working all of the planes at once.
6436 CNGC has been deploying a further modified version of the ZTZ99, possibly known as ZTZ99G.
6438 The commander viewer of the new tank appears to be slightly larger than that of the basic variant ZTZ99, suggesting a possible independent commander thermal imaging viewer.
6442 Although type metal alloy are basically conformed by the same three metals, the proportions vary according to the intended final use, be it individual character mechanical casting for hand setting, mechanical line casting or individual character mechanical typesetting and stereo plate casting.
6447 Since the 1970s, non-ethnic Hungarians living in Hungary have had their folk traditions treated the same as their Hungarian neighbors.
6449 Inside, the body or bodies repose in plain stone sarcophagi, perhaps with a simple inscription, which are, or were originally, covered by rich cloth drapes.
6451 At the head of the tomb in some examples a wooden pole was surmounted by a white cloth Ottoman turban -LRB- for men -RRB-, or the turban could be in stone.
6452 Some have suggested AT&T 's tactic is not practical, due to the increase in HD and Digital channels which use high amounts of bandwidth.
6453 AT&T, however, contends that fiber within 3,000 feet of customers' homes provides more than adequate bandwidth to provide four streams of high-quality video -LRB- including one high-definition stream -RRB- plus high speed Internet access and, in the future, consumer VoIP services.
6454 It should also be noted that AT&T 's FTTN topology only requires copper bandwidth for the content actually being used by the customer, while cable must broadcast all neighborhood content to each set-top box or cable modem.
6457 Some in Congress, as well as members of the public, believe that these two agencies should be merged.
6459 Consequently, some of the cases ICE investigates originate from a CBP referral.
6465 The ` US Occupation franc' was a currency emitted by the United States for use in a hypothetically Allied-occupied France in the wake of the Battle of Normandy.
6503 The groups that united to form UNLA included Kikosi Maalum led by Milton Obote -LRB- with Tito Okello and David Oyite Ojok as commanders -RRB- ; FRONASA led by Yoweri Museveni ; Save Uganda Movement led by Akena p ` Ojok, William Omaria and Ateker Ejalu ; and Uganda Freedom Union with Godfrey Binaisa, Andrew Kayiira and Olara Otunnu in leading positions.
6509 There is, however, one exception : in Ulster, a dative singular noun after the definite article is lenited -LRB- e.g. `` on the tree '' -RRB- -LRB- as is the case in Scottish and Manx -RRB-, whereas in Connacht and Munster, it is eclipsed, except in the case of ` den', ` don' and ` insan', where lenition occurs in literary language.
6514 This central belief disqualifies them from the doctrine of Hyperdispensationalism which is almost universally recognised as a post-Acts chapter 9 to Acts chapter 15 system of theology.
6519 Umpqua Bank has enjoyed some notability in the 21st century for its setup of bank branches.
6521 Many of Umpqua Bank 's branches are called ` stores', with a greater emphasis on retail operations and atmosphere than traditional bank branches.
6532 The GO Transit commuter rail agency which was established in 1967 had been undergoing unprecedented expansion which was seeing Union Station see passenger levels that outstripped some of the busiest airports in the world.
6540 The discs were believed to contain names, addresses, dates of birth, national insurance numbers and in some cases banking details for 25 million adults and children.
6542 ` Security Council Resolution 279', adopted on May 12, 1970, at 12 words is probably the shortest UNSC resolution ever adopted, it reads simply `` Demands the immediate withdrawal of all Israeli armed forces from Lebanese territory. ''.
6546 They have many assets available to arrive to their mission, from open - and closed-circuit scuba and surface supplied diving rigs, to parachute insertion from fixed-wing aircraft and fast-rope, abseil, and Special Patrol Insertion/Extraction -LRB- SPIE -RRB- from rotary aircraft, to small boats and tracked vehicles.
6555 Bangladesh has 31 public universities instructing the bulk of higher studies students, especially from disadvantaged classes.
6558 There has been much criticism and controversial issues around public universities in Bangladesh.
6560 12 of the public universities were reported to employ a total of 1,994 unauthorized faculty and staff, resulting an annual overspend of 159,467,000.00 Bangladeshi taka borne by the government.
6565 The goal of the businesses and organizations making up the Partnership is to extend the definition of Downtown to make the University Park the area 's southern tip, and it consists of business and organizations in the adjacent University Park and South Park neighborhoods -LRB- the latter is universally considered part of Downtown Los Angeles -RRB-.
6566 Since that time there has been significant construction on both ends : with the Staples Center, LA Live and luxury apartment buildings moving south from South Park and the Galen Center and other university buildings from University Park moving north ; however the possibility of merging University Park with Downtown Los Angeles remains years away.
6571 Most faculties offer some courses in English and some departments allow international students to take their examinations in English during the first semester of study.
6575 The UC 's ties to the three laboratories have occasionally sparked controversy and protest, because all three laboratories have been intimately linked with the development of nuclear weapons.
6587 The event is probably best known for what happens off the track.
6602 If you take the turning along the St Andrews road, you are confronted by one of Upper Largo 's most impressive buildings.
6603 John Wood 's Hospital which was founded July 7, 1659 as an almshouse, it was renovated in 1975 as part of a wider development of the site that saw more than 10 pieces of accommodation built nearby which now forms a rather monotonous selection of sheltered housing.
6605 This record label is widely credited with creating the genre.
6606 In the application of urf, custom that is accepted into law should be commonly prevalent in the region, not merely in an isolated locality.
6609 Jurists also tend to, with caution, give precedence to custom over doctoral opinions of highly esteemed scholars.
6614 When Roy learns that the freeway ramp is going to be announced the next day, he pays off someone at the TV station to doctor the tape, making her stumbled phrase `` style of cars '' to sound like `` mile of cars '', creating a case of false advertising against the lot.
6617 Churches made during the 12th century were usually very small, perhaps no more than 40 square meters in its footprint.
6620 Large segments of the population were displaced, and the infrastructure is severely damaged.
6628 His contentment in life with God was something deeply moving for Robinson, and over their months of friendship, Tuigamala shared his Christian faith, though it was n't until some time later that Robinson became a Christian.
6629 The practice of vaccination has been opposed by some since its inception in the late 18th century, but criticism has become more visible in the U.S. and some other developed countries in recent years, roughly paralleling the development of the Internet.
6630 While positions vary from outright rejection of the practice to calls for more selective and cautious use of vaccination, one or several of the following arguments are typically invoked :.
6631 The witch trials of Valais are poorly documented ; the best source is the contemporary chronicle made by the clerk of the court, Johannes Fründ, -LRB- 1400-1469 -RRB-, an eyewitness to the events.
6638 Moreover, it is not as easily accessed as some nearby towns, as the only road into the village is County Road 291.
6644 He is now in his 22nd year as winemaker and is one of the most award winning winemakers in Oregon history.
6647 Their visits probably involved hunting, food gathering, and religious ceremonies, although scarcity of water would have limited their stay.
6648 Fine examples of rock art left by these ancient peoples can be found at several sites within the park.
6650 One was reported to be the owner of the company which operated the aircraft.
6651 VMO 's goal was to create opportunities for talented young musicians to perform for live audiences ; these are opportunities these young gifted musicians may not have otherwise had.
6653 Many of these young musicians need a stepping-stone to embark on their professional musical career.
6659 The extension of Russian serfdom to the Ukrainian lands dismayed Kapnist and occasioned his two most notable poems, ` Ode on Slavery' -LRB- 1783 -RRB- and ` Ode on the Elimination of Slavery in Russia' -LRB- 1786 -RRB-, in which he chastised serfdom as the principal pest of contemporary Russian society.
6661 Bodé 's most famous comic creation is perhaps the Cheech Wizard, a wizard whose large yellow hat, covered with black and red stars covers his entire body except his legs, and big red feet.
6664 Characters pressing the issue generally are rewarded with a swift kick to the groin by Cheech.
6666 Consider a ` K' - dimensional vector -LSB- x_1, x_2, ..., x_k -RSB- of amplitude levels.
6675 Most theorists agree that the head, seen from a profile view, while having no distinct facial features, appears to be looking down.
6676 The common physical characteristics of the Venus figures are : a thin upper torso, greatly exaggerated breasts, large buttocks and thighs, a large stomach -LRB- possibly due to pregnancy -RRB-, and oddly bent, short legs, that end with disproportionately small feet.
6685 The state contains 41 species of reptiles and amphibians, 89 species of fish, 193 species of breeding birds, 58 species of mammals, more than 15,000 insect species, and 2,000 higher plant species, plus fungi, algae, and 75 different types of natural communities.
6690 She subsequently began her vocal training at some of the finest institutions in London, Paris and New York.
6700 Discussion on current affairs and views of different political and army figures on the same issue are the interesting and informational highlights of this show.
6712 First Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich was named as the buyer.
6713 Elite Choice, but later the buyer was said to be Russian Mikhail Prokhorov, at a price of approximately $ 500 million. -LRB- $ 736m : ₤ 397m -RRB-.
6725 From around 1910 he worked mostly as a composer, and besides others he wrote an opera ` Campane di guerra' -LRB- 1933, Milan -RRB-, and several operettas.
6733 It is the most recent game for the PC in the franchise of Virtual Pool games and it is widely respected as the most accurate computer simulation of billiards available.
6734 The game is an active Internet pastime for many amateur billiards enthusiasts all over the world -LRB- most notably from the USA and Europe -RRB-, with a small but dedicated following, many of whom have been playing the game for years.
6745 Robust but rather lightly built, they are lean dogs, have defined muscles, and are observed to share similar physical characteristics with the Weimaraner, the grey-blue dogs, and are similar in size.
6750 Additionally, one may understand more words than one uses, meaning that one 's working vocabulary may not be representative of one 's total knowledge of a language.
6751 Volkswriter was first published in 1982, and was the first word processor for the IBM PC Lifetree published versions of the software until May, 1989 when due to profitability problems, the Volkswriter product line was sold to some employees.
6762 A series of prototype Vostoks, including at least five with animals and some with test dummies aboard, were used to qualify the spacecraft for human flight.
6764 Some people argue that votes recorded with a medium which is not human-readable -LRB- such as with electronic voting _ -RRB- electors have no ability to verify how their votes are recorded and tallied, requiring faith in the accuracy of the system.
6765 With non-electronic voting systems voters may have the ability to verify ballots are cast as recorded, but are still unable to follow the chain of custody -LRB- such as after it is placed in a ballot box -RRB- to verify the final tally of their vote.
6769 In the 9th century, the region was part of the Slavic Balaton Principality ruled by prince Pribina, part of the Pannonian Croatia ruled by prince Ljudevit, and part of the Bulgarian Empire, while in the 11th-12th century, the region was part of the Kingdom of Croatia, while from the 13th to 20th century was part of the Hungarian Kingdom.
6776 However, many uninformed miners may take the sign of its heat to mean negative functionality of the device and consequently remove it.
6783 The program featured various popular bands that played Slovenian-style polka, Polish, Italian and Bohemian-style music.
6787 Uttering the well-known show-opening phrase, `` From America 's Polka Capital of Cleveland, Ohio, this is Polka Varieties, now in its ___ year on the air ! '' were several famous voices associated with the station over the years, including Court Stanton, Ralph Gunderman, and David Mark.
6794 It was rumored that WTTE might have picked up MNTV as a secondary affiliation.
6795 However, this possible secondary affiliation did not happen as WSYX, the area 's ABC affiliate -LRB- and sister station to WTTE -RRB-, launched a new digital subchannel featuring programming from My Network TV in September of that year.
6801 Some critics also continue to ask why the ATF agents turned down a direct invitation given months before the initial assault, in which Koresh spoke with the agents by phone and asked that they come talk with him about their concerns.
6814 He also composed the Off-Broadway musical, ` Sensations', and several songs for ` Irene', as well as dance music for the film, ` The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas'.
6823 These units were tasked with anti-partisan warfare in Northern Italy and the former was largely responsible for the Marzabotto massacre ; generally regarded as the worst wartime atrocity in Italy.
6835 In his first day in the office, he accused many farmers of being separatists.
6836 The background, plot, and setting, like most Blizzard games, bear notable resemblance to tabletop games such as ` Warhammer Fantasy Battle' by Games Workshop, and ` Dungeons & Dragons' from Wizards of the Coast.
6838 The fantasy works of J. R. R. Tolkien also served as a foundation ; many of the races are patterned after Tolkien 's, and the Elvish languages used in the game -LRB- Thalassian and Darnassian -RRB- are made to sound like Sindarin and Quenya, the Elvish languages used in ` The Lord of the Rings'.
6839 However, large portions of the setting are drawn from modern-day sources and references, ranging from Star Trek, Star Wars -LRB- Toshley 's Station -RRB-, to the Cthulhu Mythos, to Thundercats, to third-world proxy wars.
6855 The Henley-in-Arden centre focusses on sports related studies and health and beauty. and offers courses from further education right through to postgraduate qualifications.
6857 Washington College is perhaps best known athletically for its men 's lacrosse team.
6866 Together, these works constitute Handel 's most famous music for what we would now consider the orchestra.
6878 After certain practices are installed, it is important to continually monitor these systems to ensure that they are working properly in terms of improving environmental quality.
6884 Within several years, however, his sound became more organic, featuring analog effects such as overdrive, wah-wah, and a Moogerfooger ring modulator.
6886 Despite the album being an official release, Iommi has been quoted as saying that the first the band knew of it was when asked to autograph copies which fans presented after concerts.
6887 There were many of the Wea Tribe that did not go west in the removals and instead remained in Indiana.
6889 Some atheists argue that believing in the possibility of a God is as ridiculous as believing in the possibility of Santa Claus, the Tooth Fairy, and so forth, and find it contradictory that weak agnostics believe in the possibility of the former but not any of the latter.
6892 Concerns have been raised about children 's use and overuse of the toys.
6894 Some say that it will only help the kids learn.
6896 However, the chat system has various safety precautions, with restrictions on who can send messages and what message can be sent, and to be able to chat with friends you must be in the same color zone as them.
6898 Concerns have also been raised about the toys being a distraction in schools, causing the toys to be banned in some schools.
6900 Some are happy for the `` advertisements '' because some say things like `` Brush '', `` Eat veggies and fruits '' and `` Get exercise ! ''.
6902 Also, some parents have begun to be concerned that their children were `` gambling '' on the game `` Webkinz Wishing Well '' where you would pull the lever and certain symbols -LRB- Not unlike a fruit machine at a casino -RRB- would tell how much KinzCash you received.
6906 There are many educational games on the website for children, such as Quizzy 's corner, which is a trivia game where you get to earn Kinzcash.
6908 These include former Warriors coach Sunday Chidzambwa, Zifa Chairman Wellington Nyatanga, army general Constantine Chiwenga, world-renowned Shona sculpture gallery owner and art collector Rex Mhiripiri, radio personalities Eunice Goto and Dr Zobha and journalists Tarzzen Mandizvidza and Asel Gwekwerere.
6912 In military transport aircraft, it is common to have a loadmaster as a part of the crew ; their responsibilities include calculating accurate load information for center of gravity calculations, and ensuring cargo is properly secured to prevent its shifting.
6915 This certainly proved a good idea in the UK, as the first episode became the top rated show of that week - a high honour indeed for a Science Fiction series - and something that has never happened before or since.
6918 In order to be able to judge alloys made up of many distinct materials, a measure known as the equivalent carbon content is used to compare the relative weldabilities of different alloys by comparing their properties to a plain carbon steel.
6922 High strength, low-alloy steels were developed especially for welding applications during the 1970s, and these generally easy to weld materials have good strength, making them ideal for many welding applications.
6932 Some fans disliked the Wesley Crusher character.
6938 This island is considered a sanctuary for giant sea turtles that lay their eggs on the island all year round.
6951 They can feed on the leaves of a variety of trees, and the predominant foodplant varies across their range ; trees commonly used include cottonwood, willow, quaking aspen and many others.
6967 The series has been seen on GSN at various times.
6970 One of the most publicized whistleblowing cases involved Jeffrey Wigand, who exposed the Big Tobacco scandal, revealing that executives of the companies knew that cigarettes were addictive while approving the addition of known carcinogenic ingredients to the cigarettes.
6979 As of 2008, it is still a prototype, for which the route has to have been walked once before, and there ca n't be too many surrounding buildings because, unlike a car GPS system, it has to have a precision of a few metres.
6983 The product is expected to be perfected in a few years.
6989 Accordingly the Laws are known by some non-initiatory Wiccans as ` Lady Sheba 's Laws' or' 161 Rules of the Witch' -LRB- her title for them -RRB-.
6990 Lady Sheba, self-styled `` Queen of the Witches '' of America, originally claimed she had received the material from her grandmother, however the text has been identified as being plagiarised -LRB- with errors -RRB- from an Alexandrian ` Book of Shadows' no earlier than the mid-1960s.
6992 There were some new Balkan influences, while the style of the band was still varied and got even harder.
6998 It has been described as ` robust, dramatic and cheerful' and the author as ` an agreeably eccentric, larger-than-life, jovial man whose laughter rings all through the book'.
7000 Ramps, however, are quite adaptable to almost any food style and can also be used in soups, puddings, ketchup, guacamole and other foods, in place of onions and garlic.
7001 Some people like them raw, but others say the aroma of raw wild leeks stays with one for days.
7008 His commitment to the representation of reality as the eye sees it earned him recognition in his lifetime as the preeminent artist of a group known as the ` Leibl-Kreis' -LRB- Leibl Circle -RRB- that included, among others, Carl Schuch, Wilhelm Trübner, Otto Scholderer, and Hans Thoma.
7018 Dr. Magruder was the subject of a famous anecdote that wound its way into ` Harper 's' magazine.
7019 He was attempting to talk a small boy into taking a dose of castor oil, promising him that the medicine was very sweet, when the boy replied, `` Well, then, if it 's so good, why do n't you take some yourself ? ''.
7025 Heirens has also been called ` The Lipstick Killer' due to a notorious message scrawled in lipstick at a crime scene.
7029 His record as a military leader is not very impressive.
7038 They were all excellent lawyers, and hotly harangued one another in the courtroom, but privately they never let a case be the cause of a rift between them.
7044 As was the case with the vast majority of the more than 1200 witnesses who gave evidence to the Commission, Rodriguez 's evidence was not given in public and was not specifically itemized in the Commission Report.
7046 Rodriguez complains that his testimony never appeared in the Commission Report and that many of the survivors were not called to testify.
7048 It acknowledges that due to the scope of the events touching so many issues and organizations, it did not interview every knowledgeable person or find every relevant piece of paper, but that its report is a foundation for a better understanding of a landmark in the history of the United States.
7055 Most scholars now accept that Shakespeare wrote' A Lover 's Complaint'.
7056 Critics consider that its fine qualities are marred by leaden effects.
7061 When Walker had arrived in Nicaragua, C.K. Garrison and Charles Morgan, subordinates of Cornelius Vanderbilt 's Accessory Transit Company, offered financial assistance with Walker 's expedition in a plot to seize control of Vanderbilt 's company.
7065 Little is known of his life, but he probably lived in Shoreham, Kent and was vicar of Chart -LRB- near Leeds, Kent -RRB-.
7068 He was once thought to be the author of an English psalter, but this is now considered spurious.
7077 Williamstown is generally considered a safe seat for the ALP, and Bracks' predecessor in the seat, Joan Kirner, was also a former Premier.
7080 This school is currently the most populated high school in Levy County, Florida.
7089 This solution has been deployed in several radical and unique products including the Bishop, Discovery and Chimera.
7090 Critics in various parts of the world have used all of these designs as Reference systems.
7101 This action ostensibly reflected Microsoft 's intent to unify its home and business lines, then represented by Windows 98 and Windows NT 4.0, but this goal would not be achieved until the introduction of Windows XP.
7102 Some believe this to be the result of a trademark dispute between Microsoft and Nortel Networks as on the bottom of the Windows NT 4.0 product boxes is a notice explaining that ` NT' is a trademark of Northern Telecom.
7104 `` Crack '' programs exist to randomly generate Windows XP product keys -LRB- thus, there are no longer any commonly used keys to block -RRB- and then activate Windows without contacting Microsoft.
7106 These are currently put to illegal and arguably unethical software piracy uses.
7109 After Wink, Sachiko and Shoko became TV personalities, appearing on many TV shows, although not often together.
7112 Churchill, upon becoming aware of his namesake 's books, then much better known than his own, wrote to him suggesting that he would sign his own works `` Winston S. Churchill, '' using his middle name, `` Spencer, '' to differentiate them.
7113 This suggestion was accepted with the comment that the American Churchill would have done the same, had he any middle names.
7114 In addition, the university hosts many events that are available free of charge or at a reduced rate for full-time students.
7116 One of these events is the annual ` Big Man on Campus Pagaent', an all-male beauty contest to raise money for the speech and hearing impaired.
7123 Some allege that he even receives state money for bringing in tourist revenue.
7126 Rev. Thomas Carter was sworn in by many of the most prominent men of New England including John Cotton, minister of the First Church of Boston, Richard Mather minister of the First Church of Dorchester, and Capt. Edward Johnson co-founder of the church and town of Woburn.
7129 He was born probably in the village of Rzędowice, although some sources give Zakrzów as his place of birth.
7130 As the Church documents which would have recorded that fact were destroyed in 1794, the exact place of his birth, as well as the time are not certain.
7131 The Wolf Prizes in physics and chemistry are often considered the most prestigious awards in those fields after the Nobel Prize.
7132 In medicine, the prize is probably the third most prestigious, after the Nobel Prize and the Lasker Award.
7143 The oldest exposed rock forms in the general area are Ruinite granite, which dates to 1400 million years before present.
7144 Within this part of the Sierra Ancha Range there are notable disjunctive populations of Coastal woodfern, ` Dryopteris arguta' ; this fern is otherwise common in areas nearer the Pacific coast.
7145 Currently, Free is community relations director for the Philadelphia 76ers or otherwise known as `` Ambassador of Basketball, '' where, among other things, he greets fans at 76ers home games in his flamboyant/colorful wardrobe.
7147 On November 30, 2005, World B. Free was honored as a Cleveland Cavaliers Legend at halftime of the Cavaliers game against the Los Angeles Clippers.
7152 Membership in the WJC is open to all representative Jewish groups or communities, irrespective of the social, political or economic ideology of the community 's host country.
7154 The World Jewish Congress has special credentials and recognition at the United Nations and within many of its institutions, commissions and sub-bodies.
7157 This profitable business gained many patents of which the richest was for almanacks including Old Moore 's Almanack.
7158 The business employed out-of-work printers and disbursed some of the profit to the poor.
7162 His work is recognized as some of the better modern religious art work.
7166 Among American open wheel series, there have been races for USAC, CART -LRB- now Champ Cars -RRB- and the Indy Racing League, most held at Phoenix International Raceway.
7173 As of October 4 2007, ` Halo 3' is the Xbox 360 's best-selling game with over 5.2 million copies sold.
7174 First-party developer Rare had two games at launch : ` Perfect Dark Zero', which was Rare 's first major commercial success after their acquisition by Microsoft ; and was believed by some to be the console 's flagship launch title ; and ` Kameo : Elements of Power'.
7175 Only six games were initially offered in Japan, and eagerly anticipated titles like ` Dead or Alive 4' and ` Enchanted Arms' were not released until several weeks after launch.
7190 Xpdf is also used as a backend for other PDF reader frontends such as KPDF and GPDF, and its engine, without the X11 display components, is used for PDF viewers including BePDF on BeOS, ! PDF on RISCOS and PalmPDF on Palm OS.
7199 Frequently -LRB- about twice a month -RRB- there are Friday night parties or onegs scheduled and at 9pm there is a well-populated Tea and Torah program where people hang out and learn in the beis midrash while enjoying some tea, and other snacks.
7204 Some viewers felt that the film was virtually a `` one-man show '', with Patekar 's character stealing the show.
7207 Dr. Clayton Trinder Onions, an editor of the Oxford English Dictionary, seems not to have noticed the word before he published the XYZ section of the dictionary in 1921 but the later supplement notes the use of ` yob' as meaning ` boy' in the working-class youth context, from 1859.
7209 In the dictionary supplement 's references, it is possible to detect a slow drift in the word 's meaning, towards the ` Ruffian' interpretation, the new emphasis becoming clear from about 1927.
7215 Kawashima became a well-known and popular figure in Manchukuo society, making appearances on radio broadcasts, and even issuing a record of her songs.
7217 However, her very popularity created issues with the Kwantung Army, as her utility as an intelligence asset was long gone, and her value as a propaganda symbol was compromised by her increasingly critical tone against the Japanese military 's exploitative policies in Manchukuo as a base of operations against China in the Second Sino-Japanese War, and she gradually faded from public sight.
7218 Already viewed as one of the top high school pitchers in the country, Sato pitched well in the regional Miyagi Tournament that summer, throwing 226 pitches in fifteen shutout innings in the finals against rival Tohoku High School on July 31 in what ended in a scoreless tie -LRB- as per tournament regulations -RRB-.
7226 Alexander lobbied other state delegations for DC voting rights at the 2004 Democratic Convention in Boston, Massachusetts.
7230 Thus, it is thought that this gene may have multiple roles in signal transduction during development.
7231 In the early 1990s, newlyweds Zainab Salbi and Amjad Atallah, a Palestinian-American, were deeply moved by the plight of the women of the former Yugoslavia, many forced into the now infamous rape and concentration camps.
7236 The early history of Zamboanga del Norte is shared with that of Zamboanga City, which had been the center of the entire Mindanao area, most notably during the American era.
7249 Zero-sum can be thought of more generally as ` constant sum' where the benefits and losses to all players sum to the same value of money -LRB- or utility -RRB-.
7257 In early 2004, at the height of the controversy, Matrixx Initiatives, Inc., the maker of Zicam, claimed that only a small number of people had experienced problems and that anosmia -LRB- loss of smell -RRB- can, amongst others, also be caused by the common cold itself.
7260 Others countered Matrixx, claiming that many of the patients had experienced a strong and very painful burning sensation when they used the product, indicating damage to the nasal tissue.
7262 The film has received mixed reviews from critics who have criticised its poor production values, attempts at satire, and execution, while recognising its intentionally camp style.
7268 For all other aspects and information related to emotional and sexual activity with animals, see Zoophilia.'.
7271 The red spectra suggests that has very little fresh ice on its surface and may explain why it has a lower than average estimated albedo of ~ 0.03.
7272 For example, has a higher estimated albedo -LRB- ~ 0.12 -RRB-, resulting in a brighter absolute magnitude -LRB- H = 3.3 -RRB-, and is estimated to be physically smaller -LRB- ~ 730 km -RRB-.
7273 The album, which was recorded in less than two weeks, contains arguably the band 's two most famous songs, `` Wonderwall '' and `` Do n't Look Back in Anger '', along with `` Champagne Supernova '' and their first UK # 1 single, `` Some Might Say ''.
7276 The ` Ecomusee du fier monde' is a museum about the industrial and working-class people of South Central Montreal, Canada, one of the city 's oldest neighbourhoods.
7283 Manac' h was quite important in French foreign affairs, and was influential to Charles de Gaulle, whose ideas about Indochina were considered naive and extreme.
7284 He had a self-important attitude towards French involvement in the Vietnam War in that he believed France had an instrumental role to play, not just as a neutral observer or puppet for the Americans.
7286 Manac' h believed the South Vietnamese government was only held up by American involvement, and eventually it would collapse and the National Liberation Front would fill the power vacuum.
