It is based on the .458 Winchester Magnum and is suited for all kinds of large game in North America.
' 2.5 D' -LRB- two-and-a-half dimensional -RRB- is an informal term used to describe visual phenomena which are considered `` between '' 2D and 3D.
This is often also called ` pseudo-3D'.
Some note that the number of deaths during confrontations with police is relatively proportional for a city the size of Cincinnati but the focus of the issue was on the fact that only blacks died during that span.
It is often said that the phone number 867-5309 was that of an apartment building in State College, Pennsylvania, home of Penn State University.
The number is said to have belonged to a girl living in downtown State College in either the Beaver Hill or Cedarbrook apartment buildings.
Allegedly, this female had connections -LRB- although not clear what kind of connections -RRB- to the band, which is why her phone number was used.
The name is probably derived from the ` Allgemeines Kriegsdepartement 7 Abteilung Verkehrswesen' -LRB- `` General War Department 7, Branch Transportation '' -RRB-, although some theorize that Hauptmann Joseph Vollmer gave the V to the name.
Some of its methods, however, have come under question, viewed by the cannabis community as overt propaganda.
In addition, the legality of using government funding to support social perceptions about drugs instead of informing people of their negative effects is highly controversial, claimed by those opposing the advertising campaign to be the precise definition of propaganda.
The majority of cannabis users feel that these adverts encourage discrimination against them, insult them, encourage their alienation from society and make them look like hard drug users.
The ` Admiral 's Men' -LRB- more strictly, the ` Earl of Nottingham 's Men' ; after 1603, ` Prince Henry 's Men' ; after 1612, the ` Elector Palatine 's Men' or the ` Palsgrave 's Men' -RRB- was a theatre company in the Elizabethan and Jacobean eras, generally considered the second most important acting troupe of English Renaissance theatre -LRB- after the company of Shakespeare, the Lord Chamberlain 's or King 's Men -RRB-.
It was supposed by Euripides -LRB- ` Ion', 995 -RRB- that the Gorgon was the original possessor of this goatskin, yet the usual understanding is that the ` Gorgoneion' was ` added' to the aegis, a votive gift from a grateful Perseus.
Most observers believe that the use of land as collateral is years away.
Some Gore supporters contend that a plurality of Florida voters did vote for Gore, and George W. Bush won by successfully preventing the votes from being counted ; however, the evidence regarding the final vote tally is inconclusive.
Since the election, recounts have been conducted by dozens of news organizations from around the world with results that are confusing at best.
Some have claimed that Bush would have actually increased his lead if state wide recounts had taken place, others claim that Gore would have won the recounts.
The band is often credited with bringing country music groups -LRB- as opposed to solo vocalists -RRB- into the mainstream, paving the way for the success of today 's top country groups.
Some scholars contend that debates over the precise meaning of ` bethulah' and ` almah' are misguided because no Hebrew word encapsulates the idea of certain virginity.
He reportedly sold videotapes, gloves and socks from the sidewalk along 14th Street during the day and studied in the evenings.
The Egyptians developed a variety of furniture.
It is used in ` Anglo-Celtic Isles', an alternative term -LRB- in limited use -RRB- for the geographic region comprising the islands of Great Britain, Ireland and smaller adjacent islands, more commonly referred to as the ` British Isles' -- the former geographic term being preferred by some due to it being free of any perceived political implication and the latter term by others.
It has been widely suggested that Eden 's medication affected his mood and decision-making in both the build-up to and during the Suez Crisis.
Prevalence estimates within clinical settings have varied from three to 30 percent, depending on the predominant characteristics of the populations being sampled.
Muller went to Bombay -LRB- now Mumbai -RRB- in 1911, then considered the haven of Art in India.
Many cities in the world have had proposed or desired arcologies that never went far.
` Area - International POPular Group', most commonly known as ` AreA', was an Italian jazz fusion and progressive rock group formed in 1972.
Armenian hospitality is legendary and stems from ancient tradition.
It is considered rare and unusual for one to go inside an Armenian household and not be offered coffee, pastry, food, or even water.
Examinations are available in over 90 countries ; some argue that they should therefore reflect an international approach to music-making, rather than promote a purely British musical style.
They are unrelated to Black or Brown rats and are not problematic.
The rangers at Healesville tolerate them, since they -LRB- the rats -RRB- are native to the area and carry no dangerous diseases.
The puzzle piece ribbon is used by some autism societies.
Some autistic adults find this ribbon offensive and insulting.
Some people have the goal of eliminating autism completely ; since those in the autism rights movement see autism as a natural human variation and not a disorder, they are opposed to attempts to eliminate autism.
Skeptics such as James Randi note that there is little evidence distinguishing automatic writing claimed to be of supernatural origins from a parlor game that is little more than sparks of creativity in the minds of the participants.
They assert that there is no evidence that there is anything more than the subconscious of those performing the writing influencing their actions and that there is no solid evidence that any messages are coming from anywhere other than the minds of the person holding the pencil.
According to some officials, Ban has gone further, boosting South Korea 's presence in U.N. ranks by more than 20 percent in the past year.
Today the bank advertises itself in the Highlands and Hebrides under the Gaelic title ` Banca na h-Alba', although the forthcoming new issue of notes fails to include any Gaelic which is regarded as disappointing by many Gaelic supporters given the rising status of the language in Scotland.
This glamour shot was done at her insistence and some fans consider this scene, and her character in general, to be in stark contrast to the theme of the movie.
Many regard this incident as one of Napoleon 's cruelest acts in war.
It is expected to be released in early 2008.
Bellingham is home to the longest-running Peace vigil in the US.
` Better World Books' is a controversial American for-profit social enterprise that collects used books and sells them to raise funding for over 80 non-profit literacy programs.
Some scholars have suggested that Bhaskara 's work influenced later developments in the Middle East and Europe.
His work was perhaps known to Islamic mathematicians as soon as it was written, and influenced their subsequent writings.
An alleged unofficial copy of the account of the 1999 Bilderberg meeting does not support these claims.
He is known by the nickname '' ` The Big Tuna' '', a nickname he explained that was based on a team joke from when he was coaching the PatriotsAlthough some would dispute the fact, the joke related to a peculiar smell that follows his person.
While not necessarily a `` cure '' for these conditions, it is believed that body cleansing benefits various ailments through allowing the body to perform optimally and to utilize its innate ability to regain balance.
Arguments for and against the bombing being a war crime come from all across the political spectrum and are supported in a variety of ways.
Despite the BSF 's success in a counter-terrorism role, many in the administration felt that this additional burden was leading to a dilution of the BSF 's mandate and degrading the force 's ability to perform its primary role of guarding the country 's borders.
` Piazza della Loggia', a noteworthy example of Renaissance ` piazza', with the eponymous loggia -LRB- the current Town Hall -RRB- built in 1492 by the architect Filippino de' Grassi.
It is thought that the gay sexual trick known as the ` Cincinnati Bow Tie' was invented within the house.
In Piazza del Foro is the most important array of Roman remains in Lombardy.
It is one of the best example of High Middle Ages architecture in northern Italy.
The name ` Artemia salina' should not be used anymore.
Instead Artemia species should be used species `` Compound eye ''.
Along with Rick Priestley, Alan and Michael Perry, and others including Richard Halliwell, John Blanche, Jervis Johnson, Alan Merrett, Ansell was responsible for the massive Warhammer -LRB- later Warhammer Fantasy Battle -RRB- boom of the mid to late 1980s, which many long term wargamers now refer to as ` the Golden Era'.
In many ways it was the Warhammer game developed by Ansell -LRB- and Priestley -RRB- that made Games Workshop so successful and which has enabled the continued growth of the company since.
The appellation `` Buffalo '' is now commonly applied to foodstuffs other than wings that are seasoned with the sauce or variations on it.
It is alleged that CIA smuggled opium from Western Vietnam to the U.S..
Some Lutherans have a calendar of saints, but most Protestant theologians and denominations, in an attempt to avoid veneration of certain believers above others, reject the notion of an official or recognized list of `` saints ''.
Also, since most Protestants reject prayer requests of the dead as impossible, much of other churches' motivation for canonization is removed in Protestant practice.
CBS and Mark Goodson Productions brought back this show with Bob Eubanks, of ` The Newlywed Game' fame, as its new host -LRB- one story had it that Goodson wanted Jim Perry, but Mr. Perry was already committed as host on NBC 's ` Sale of the Century' -RRB- on January 6, 1986 at 10:30 AM.
Some people prefer the term `` lovers without commitment ''.
Many people believe that dogs are smarter, but this may not be true.
Most people think that dogs are smarter because they are loyal and make humans feel like the center of the universe.
But many scientists say that loyalty and the ability to do tricks does not contribute to intelligence.
However, it is almost impossible to say a cat is smarter than a dog or a dog is smarter than a cat because it is very hard to create an intelligence test for two different species, let alone one.
Among some open source user groups exists the feeling that Transgaming has been `` Free riding '' on the free software movement with Cedega.
President Assad of Syria signed a peace and friendship treaty with the Soviet Union and some have suggested that the co-incidental uprising by the Muslim brotherhood in Syria was a CIA operation to overthrow Assad for his pro-Soviet policies.Dreyfuss, Robert.
It was a Megarian colony founded on a site so obviously inferior to that which was within view on the opposite shore, that it received from the oracle the name of `` the City of the Blind. ''.
At her live shows she is known to bring people up on stage and have them strip for a song called Take Off Your Clothes as well as have the whole audience do aerobics for Nth Degree.
Also known to wear a gun holster as a microphone holder.
Some have therefore criticised him for holding shares -LRB- listed on the Register of Members' Interests -RRB- in a UK company called IRISYS, which specialises in producing thermal imagers `` for process, people and queue monitoring ''.
Many Rastafarians are offended because Christafari takes -LRB- or steal, according to some -RRB- the symbols of the Rastafarian culture in order to attack the divinity of their God, Selassie I, and instead use that culture to promote in a missionary way what many Rastas see as the `` white '' Jesus that Rastafarians were rejecting in the first place.
With his dreadlocks Mohr and other `` Christafarians '' have been called `` wolves in sheep 's clothing ''.
Marshall Astor was among those who expressed outrage at these renamings, while others supported them as being inclusive.
Rouse is commonly referred to as a neo-romantic composer, as many of his works attempt to combine diatonicism with more contemporary musical idioms.
The name ` chronic fatigue syndrome' is itself controversial, with some patient advocates and other authorities preferring terms such as myalgic encephalomyelitis -LRB- `` ME '' or `` ME/CFS '' -RRB- and post-viral fatigue syndrome -LRB- `` PVFS '' -RRB-, which imply specific underlying etiologies or pathologic processes.
The Portofino was heralded as a design triumph, setting in motion Chrysler 's decision to produce a production sedan with the Portofino 's revolutionary design, called `` cab-forward ''.
President Mohammed Daoud Khan was executed along with most of his family after coup forces took the presidential palace.
Even though Gator has always been installed with an uninstall routine -LRB- although only available via Add/Remove Programs in the Control Panel -RRB-, many spyware removal tools can detect and remove it.
Because the term race has often been used synonymously with subspecies, some people incorrectly use cline instead of `` race '' to describe what they see as distinct groups of humanity -LRB- Caucasoid, Mongoloid, Negroid, Australoid, Capoid, and so forth -RRB-.
Because of the controversies over the term `` race '', the term `` cline '' may be much more of an accurate description.
Like all modern skyscrapers, WTC towers were designed to survive major fires, but not necessarily those that involved jet fuel.
The rock group P.O.D. 's single `` Youth of the Nation '' includes some lyrics that are widely believed to be based on Columbine.
However, in April 2003, HP reportedly opted to return to CDE, as GNOME had not stabilised sufficiently for their preference.
It has been suggested that GNOME 's non-frozen APIs were the main complaint.
The ` Harian Rakyat' issue carried an article in support of the G30S coup, but speculation later arose concerning whether it actually represented the opinions of PKI.
However, some aspects of alternative medicine are taught in several schools as part of the curriculum.
Conseco Fieldhouse has received widespread acclaim as one of the finest facilities in all of the sports world.
The fieldhouse is a veritable museum to the rich heritige that is Indiana basketball.
A ` conurbation' is an urban area comprising a number of cities, large towns and larger urban areas that, through population growth and expansion, have physically merged to form one continuous built up area.
These improvements are said by most to have a negligible improving effect upon a given innings, but their main purpose is to increase the comfort and confidence of the batsman and to promote the quality and range of bats from their manufacturer.
Some have argued that Christianity is undermined by the inability of Christians to agree on matters of faith and church governance, and the tendency for the content of their faith to be determined by regional or political factors.
Schopenhauer sarcastically suggests that Christian beliefs are affected by climate : : ` The Catholic clergy, for example, are fully convinced of the truth of all the tenets of their Church, and so are the Protestant clergy of theirs, and both defend the principles of their creeds with like zeal.
Some critics have maintained that Christianity is n't founded on an historical figure, but rather on a mythical creation.
To meet the third goal, incentives were given to those who would convert to Croatdom -LRB- joining the Catholic Church and declaring themselves to be Croatian -RRB-, which included giving them free land and lower taxes.
Since this did not draw many conversions, a Croat Orthodox Church was created, to be considered one of the three faiths to which Croats could officially belong -LRB- the others being Catholicism and Islam -RRB-.
To try to get conversions to this church, similar incentives were given.
Members of the Serbian Orthodox Church were forced to wear white armbands -LRB- similar to Jews being forced to wear yellow armbands in some countries -RRB-, but this was not required of members of the Croat Orthodox Church.
Recent releases of ragdoll mods have sparked much controversy.
Some contend that this, in turn, may have influenced Castro 's movement away from the liberal elements of his revolutionary movement and increase the power of hardline Marxist figures in the government, notably Che Guevara.
This theory is open to debate and has been attacked in various publications which have argued that Castro undertook the Revolution with the goal of turning Cuba towards socialism.
Maryland boasts a plethora of marine fare, including blue crabs, crabcakes, crab soup, seafood lasagna, raw oysters, and rock fish.
The ` Cyprus dispute' is today the conflict between Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots and also Republic of Cyprus and Turkey over Cyprus and between Cypriot Turks and Greece and for that matter between Greece and Turkey but there is no dispute there really on the other hand it may just be a dispute purely between Turkish and Greek Cypriots and for the interest of brevity but you cant forget the dispute between Turkish Cypriots and Greece, an island nation in the eastern Mediterranean Sea.
Some people avoid dairy products for health reasons.
They argue that cow 's milk is specifically designed for calves, not humans.
The effectiveness of the project as a fundraising vehicle has been questioned.
Some critics have also questioned whether the travel to Alaska, Cayman Island, and Canada was necessary for fundraising purposes.
This was developed further by several companies, and it will probably be an important part of near-future `` flash '' devices.
Often referred to as the British James Ellroy, he is a crime writer.
In this context, Genesis may then be interpreted as an account of the process of cosmic evolution.
The Day-age approach forms the broad perspective on which a wide range of creation theories and interpretations are based.
Day-age creation viewpoints can be compared to Old Earth creationism, as a theory by which the literal Genesis account of Creation may be reconciled with modern scientific theories on the age of the Universe, the Earth, life, and humans.
According to some, given that the solvency of the fractional reserve banking system requires a continual massive stream of new debtors, some left-leaning monetary reformers also consider the waging of aggressive wars and modern imperialism as an ` essential' component in the survival of any debt-based economic system.
Many fans had a negative reaction to the pay-per-view, with Canadian Online Explorer !.
Depigmentation of the skin is commonly linked to people who suffer with vitiligo who then apply a topical cream containing the organic compound monobenzone to remove the remaining pigment.
In fact, Developer Express is believed to be the first vendor to offer commercial visual components for Visual Studio. NET.
On February 11, 2006, U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney accidentally shot Harry Whittington, a 78-year-old Texas attorney, while participating in a quail hunt on a ranch in Kenedy County, Texas.
Morris is credited by many with engineering Clinton 's re-election to the Arkansas governorship after a humiliating defeat at the end of Clinton 's first term.
Thus it is not surprising President Clinton turned to Morris after the mid-term elections of 1994, when Republicans seized control of the U.S. House and Senate and Clinton 's own chances for a second presidential term seemed negligible.
It was Morris who proposed a strategy that is now referred to as `` triangulation, '' where Bill Clinton would appeal to a diverse group of voters by distancing himself from both the Democratic and Republican parties.
Many perceived this as a move to the center of the political spectrum, and it disappointed some who had hoped Clinton would pursue a more liberal policy.
Some still hold to Semi-Pelagianism, which holds that though grace is required for men to save themselves at the beginning, there remains a trace of moral ability within men that is unaffected by original sin.
Many Muslims criticise the Shia for certain beliefs and practices, including practices such as the Mätam.
Most people find vertigo very disturbing and often report associated nausea and vomiting.
It has been suggested that a number of large ISPs have configured their DNS servers to violate rules -LRB- presumably to allow them to run on less-expensive hardware than a fully-compliant resolver -RRB-, such as by disobeying TTLs, or by indicating that a domain name does not exist just because one of its name servers does not respond.
The nature of female violence has also been questioned.
Studies show that women act violently against men as a means of self defense probably because of the fact that they were previously victims of abuse.
Many women retaliate because they have been harassed by their appearance or personal lives, or have even had death threats against them.
It has been a controversial matter on whether or not women can inflict as much injury on a man, as man can to a woman.
Interestingly enough, studies show that women perpetrators are more likely to cause serious physical damage to their male spouse when using a knife, object, or gun.
It suggests that the few cases that have been reported by men, have had their social and legal needs already met.
In most cases, the physical damage done to women is far more great than the physical damage done to men, which becomes far less apparent for others to notice any kind of physical damage in men.
Even if a man would report domestic abuse, people would be skeptical of his claim.
If a man has a black eye or bruise, it would be assumed that it happened from too much contact sport, getting into a brawl with another man, or even getting hurt at work.
It is assumed that women are not capable of inflicting such harm.
Though the comic began light-hearted, Dominic Deegan : Oracle for Hire is a very melodramatic comic, with at least one character crying, bleeding, or getting horribly maimed in each storyline.
Another criticism could be that most of all the heroes in the comic have modern, politically correct opinions regarding race, sexual preference and ethics, and are n't afraid to talk about them.
While most of all the villains in the comic tend to be bigots.
Some members of the disability rights movement `` believe that public support for prenatal diagnosis and abortion based on disability contravenes the movement 's basic philosophy and goals. ''.
The movie is considered a cheesy parody of a classic TV show with campy humor but some parts were generally enhanced through the talent of Hanks and Aykroyd.
A reduction in efficiency while learning the Dvorak layout further impedes its adoption by typists already competent with QWERTY, and the organizations that employ them -- although it has been claimed that on average, typists who switch to Dvorak require just two to three weeks' use to surpass their former typing speeds.
Besides Echo Park itself, adjacent communiies such as Angelino Heights, Colton Hill, Edendale, Elysian Heights, Temple-Beaudry, Sunset Heights, and some would argue, Mayberry, are often considered part of the neighborhood.
After 14 months, the firm implemented an MBO to re-emerge as Edgar, Dunn & Company with a strong focus on financial services and payments.
PaymentDynamics gives the firm a unique insight into customer attitudes and behavior related to their payment decisions, along with a New York office.
In December 2004, the firm 's Frankfurt office was opened to meet the needs of clients in Germany and Eastern Europe.
In the future, it is believed that edge-loops will no longer be required at all.
Some critics have alleged employing Nazi scientist war criminals to work on the project -LRB- see ` Secret Agenda : The United States Government, Nazi Scientists and Project Paperclip, 1945-1990', by Linda Hunt, St. Martin 's Press, 1991 -RRB-.
He is considered to be one of the leading British potters of his generation.
Commercial factory farming operations can involve raising the hens in battery cages.
In the early-generation Roomba, fine dust particles are known to cause mechanical failure after sustained daily use.
Some people contend -LRB- backed up by the theory of risk compensation -RRB- that the perception of safety conferred by the ESC will encourage more dangerous driving or risk taking.
The counter-argument is that most road users do not understand these systems and hence just drive as they normally would.
Further, statistics from manufacturers such as ESC pioneer, Mercedes Benz, clearly show the decrease in road accidents after the introduction of the technology.
Due to the very bold and daring scenes of nudity and gore in the series, it has drawn criticism as being `` overly blatant '' or `` sad and forced ''.
The first seven minutes of the first episode are often said to be some of the boldest and most provocative scenes of many anime, and have deterred some viewers and caused controversy as to its release.
As the years went by, as Emperor Xiaowen grew in age, he appeared to gradually assume more and more power.
Altering hormone signals can change how the body works and may lead to health problems.
Some people speculate that endocrine disrupting compounds may be linked to many health concerns, such as cancer, diabetes, obesity, learning disabilities and behavioural problems.
Solid human evidence linking EDCs with these kinds of effects is hard to determine, but their is increasing evidence from the fields of epidemiology, toxicology, environmental health, and environmental science that suggests there might be something to the claims.
Critics of this interpretation argue that it effectively changes the Constitution.
Some critics state the reason for losing the roles was that her outsized stage persona did not fit well on the screen.
Others have said that after her behavior on the set of Twentieth-Century Fox 's ` There 's No Business Like Show Business', Jack Warner refused to have her in any of his motion pictures, thereby causing her to lose the role of Rose in ` Gypsy', though some believe Rosalind Russell 's husband and agent, Freddie Brisson, negotiated the rights away from Merman for his wife.
Groups such as Defeat Autism Now contend that autism is caused by heavy metal toxicity, and use chelation therapy to remove the minerals from the blood -LRB- though this also has never been proven to alleviate the symptoms of autism -RRB-.
Criticism of EM has come from all directions.
Many internet sites and web pages and even internet videos have been dedicated to countering the position of many school districts and education professionals that EM is an effective mathematics program.
Many believe that EM, rather than being innovative, is a severely deficient and radical approach to math that should be abandoned.
Due to way the tape was fed back on the reel, Stringy Floppy tapes had a relatively short life expectancy compared to either the 8-track or floppy alternative.
As one of the smaller Oxford Colleges, Exeter has a reputation for having a close-knit student body, and Common Rooms that are noted for their friendliness and openness to new students.
Views range in intensity from apathy to extreme.
Some risk their life to help suffering animals ; some defend these farms as necessary to avoid human starvation.
However, while factory farming is necessary to produce the quantity of meat, eggs, and dairy products currently demanded by consumers it is n't necesseraly required to produce the amounts of these products required in a healthy -LRB- plant based -RRB- diet like the ones promoted by many nutrition experts.
The broad majority of experts believe that while some form of industrial farming is necessary to feed billions of humans, the current methods must be altered for a variety of reasons.
Denial by others of child sexual abuse is common and its reality is not easily accepted.
Questioning the validity of allegations made by children is the most common form of denial.
It is possible that false allegations may be over-represented, because many true victims of child sexual abuse never tell anyone at all about what happened.
False retractions are also common.
Other studies have shown false allegation rates to be as low as two percent.
Some studies break down the level of false allegations by the age of the child.
It is suggested that parents have consistently underestimated the seriousness of their child 's distress when compared to accounts of their own children.
It was reported that while performing at Rocklahoma in 2007, Taime Downe made various bad taste comments to the crowd referencing Brent Muscat 's cancer.
As with other producers of Saturday morning cartoons, Filmation was more concerned with quantity rather than quality ; however, they did make a number of attempts to rise above the standard animated fare and produce reasonably well-written cartoons.
The best-known example of this is their animated adaptation of the ` Star Trek' series, which included scripts contributed by well-known science fiction writers and starred most of the original cast.
Other favorably remembered Filmation series included a 16-part animated serial of ` Flash Gordon' -LRB- originally intended as a movie for theatrical release but shown in its entirety only thrice on NBC -RRB- ; ` Fat Albert and the Cosby Kids', an animated educational series created by and starring Bill Cosby ; and ` He-Man and the Masters of the Universe', based on the popular line of Mattel toys.
The textbook example of a `` fire sale '', and the incident most commonly referenced meant when the term is used in a United States sport context, is when the Florida Marlins traded away most of their high-priced players after their 1997 World Series victory and finished in last place the following year.
Most of the prospects they obtained never became regular major-league players, and the Marlins did not have a winning record again until 2003.
They also suffered a substantial drop in attendance.
Flip-flops are a very basic type of footwear -- essentially a thin rubber sole with two simple straps running in a Y from the sides of the foot to the join between the big toe and next toe.
Popular use of flip-flops as simple warm climate beach or outdoor wear has spread through much of the world, although it is most common in Australia, New Zealand, California and Florida -LRB- USA -RRB-, the Pacific Islands, and Southeast Asia.
The widely accepted idea of the Flower Wars is that it was a special institutionalized kind of warfare where two enemy states would plan battles through mutual arrangement in order to satisfy the religious needs of both combatants for war captives to use in sacrificial rituals, but also, possibly, to train young warriors and enable social mobility which for the lower classes was primarily possible through military service.
However in recent years this interpretation has been doubted by scholars such as Nigel Davies See Davies -LRB- 1968 -RRB- for an advancement of this interpretation and Ross Hassig Hassig -LRB- 1988 -RRB-., who argues that `` the mutual arrangement '' of the flower war institution is dubious, and suggest that Flowery War was in fact a low-intensity, sustained conflict with the Aztec side trying to fatigue the Tlaxcalteca in order to later conquer them entirely.
Bush came under criticism from European leaders for his rejection of the Kyoto Protocol, which is aimed at reducing carbon dioxide emissions that contribute to global warming.
He has asserted, for example, that the Kyoto Protocol is `` unfair and ineffective '' because it would exempt 80 percent of the world and `` cause serious harm to the U.S. economy ''.
` Foundry sand testing' is sand in the foundry industry which is the most commonly less understood substance.
In a sand casting foundry sands which are used for making moulds or cores are mainly of following types .1.
The preparation process of the sands envolve various parameters in accordance with their types and after preparation there area various parameters of the sand which should be tested to assure defect free casting.
In a Sand casting foundry there are only two sources of rejection i.e. Metal & Sand, with wide variety of internal variables.
The defects arising from the sand can be ` prevented' by using sand testing equipments by monitoring various properties of the sand.
Following are the most popular makes of the testing equipments.
The record enjoyed little success, being released only in Japan.
The follow up album ` Fearless', released on Atlantic performed considerably better with ` American Life In The Summertime', the lead single off the album receiving considerable airplay in the States.
Many fans still consider this album to be his finest.
Dunnery 's next album was 1998s ` Let 's Go Do What Happens' released on the little known Razor and Tie label.
The album was poorly promoted and commercially unsuccessful yet is considered by many to be his most mature performance yet, containing rockier numbers and experimentation with more electronic sounds.
During this brutal campaign on the way to Lhasa, Younghusband slaughtered 1,300 Tibetans in Gyangze.
It would be illogical to many in such a case to jeopardise those living standards for a war.
` Frere Jacques' is a well-known children 's song.
At the S.W.A.T. championship in 2005, GSG 9 won an impressive seven out of seven events, beating 17 other teams.
Geoffrey Kleinman is considered a professional source for the home entertainment industry and is often cited as an expert opinion especially in regaurds to the format war.
Strait is sometimes referred to as the `` King of Country '' and some critics call Strait a living legend -LRB- Bego, 2001 -RRB-.
There are many amazing ` Goosebumps' episodes, and it would be easy to discuss the merit of each.
R. L. Stine 's brilliance is perhaps best showcased in these two episodes.
But there is much, much more to ` Goosebumps' than the scare factor.
Some will argue that the old man who made the mask was not infact an antagonist, but his role in creating the mask clearly establishes him as the antagonist of the story.
Coutts himself claimed that he thought his accidental death explanation would not be believed, and he would be convicted of murder regardless.
This has turned out to be true, but in any case, the post-death behaviour appears to strengthen the claim that the death was unplanned.
If he had such tendencies before the death, they may have been the necessary motive for murder.
The word `` gremlin '' originated in oral use amongst R.A.F. aviators' slang in Malta, the Middle East and India and is said to date to 1923 ; with the earliest recorded printed use being a poem published in the journal ` Aeroplane' April 10, 1929.
Gremlins were also thought to have enemy sympathies, but investigation revealed that the enemy also had similar problems, so the gremlins were not taking sides in the conflict. -RCB- -RCB-.
` Gulnara Islamovna Karimova' -LRB- born July 8, 1972 -RRB- is the daughter of President Islom Karimov of Uzbekistan. She serves as an Advisor to the Ambassador of Uzbekistan in Russia and is believed to have built an extensive business empire that includes the largest wireless telephone operator in Uzbekistan, night clubs, and a large cement factory.
The bridge was originally built from cast iron, which has a great tendency to decay with age.
This was especially evident in the side rails, which had begun to rust badly.
Some harm reductionists advocate the availability of the synthetic drug methadone -LRB- or, more recently, of buprenorphine -RRB- for users who are dependent on opioids -LRB- e.g. heroin, codeine -RRB-.
Critics of methadone treatment claim that this is merely a substitution of one addiction for another, or that methadone treatment does not work.
There is an international literature to show that methadone programmes can help opioid users stabilise their lifestyles by obtaining a legal, regulated substitute drug.
It was rumored that doctors at the hospital to which Washington had been brought when he suffered his fatal heart attack had discovered that underneath his suit he was wearing female underwear.
Hathor 's temple at Dendera contains an image, that recently has come to be known as the Dendera Light, which some, controversially, have claimed may be a depiction of an electric lamp.
Most football experts rank Walker 's professional career as something of a disappointment.
This must be due to the high, perhaps unrealistic, expectations that were placed upon him due to his college career and the scrutiny which was entailed by so much being traded for him by the Vikings.
Some observers, however, claim that Walker was at least in part a victim of the package of rules changes the NFL had adopted in the spring of 1978, which were widely assumed to discourage offenses from running -LRB- rather than passing -RRB- most of the time ; in addition, the NFL teams on which Walker played seldom used the I-formation, out of which he ran so successfully throughout his career.
The term is also used by some to imply that extending equal rights to LGBT people ` inherently' constitutes discrimination against heterosexuals, or as an intentionally absurd use of language made generally by more conservative position in LGBT debates, to counteract perceived pejorative bias of the term homophobia.
He is said to have been an inspiration for the surrealist movement in the twentieth century.
Other suggested lifestyle changes include : Using supplements such as omega 3 fish oil.
Some Muslims believe hijab covering for women should be compulsory as part of Sharia law.
Alternative hiphopThough mainstream acceptance has become fairly limited to so-called commercial acts, some alternative rap artists, with a socially aware or positive or optimistic tone, have achieved moderate mainstream success.
De La Soul 's ` Three Feet High and Rising', Gang Starr 's ` No More Mr. Nice Guy' and the Jungle Brothers' ` Straight Out the Jungle' are usually considered the first albums in this genre, with jazz-based samples and lyrics -LRB- see jazz rap -RRB- strongly influenced by the Afrocentric messages of Bambaataa 's Zulu Nation collective.
Covering or restraining the breasts may date back to ancient Greece.
Therefore it would be a mistake to believe that covering the breasts, or even wearing a bra like garment was a usual part of Minoan life.
The period is widely regarded as a time of cultural and national decline as contrasted to the best years of the medieval Bulgarian Empire, mainly owing to the foreign character of the dominant empire, as well as its stagnation and decline in the later years.
However, there is some speculation among fans that she had faked her death in order to get out of the industry completely.
The Ukrainian famine -LRB- 1932-1933 -RRB-', or ` Holodomor', was one of the largest national catastrophes of the Ukrainian nation in modern history, with direct loss of human life in the range of millions.
With the estimates of the number of victims of the famine as high as up to 10 million being often published in the media.
Holograms produced using dot matrix technology are considered to be the most secured hologram internationally.
Dot matrix holograms are originated using highly sophisticated and expensive dot matrix systems, and thus offer a high level of protection - other optical or printing technologies are not able to reproduce the same wide range of optical elements.
Some people speculate the reason why Zoroastrians tend to discourage homosexuality is not simply because of a scriptural prohibition, but from perceived tradition.
Some followers suggest that homosexuality should be discouraged as celibacy is.
The uniform is considered by some to be an objectification of women.
The general environment of the restaurant is seen by many people as sexist and demeaning to women.
Critics attack the film for its violence, while defenders interpret it as a subversive commentary on the darkest aspects of a capitalist society, and how people exploit others for their own pleasure : Jean Francois Rauger, a major film critic for ` Le Monde', a French newspaper, and programmer of the Cinématheque Française, listed ` Hostel' as the Best American Film of 2006, and hailed the film as a brilliant comment on capitalism gone too far.
Some species of mites prefer to eat skin cells, a large component of household dust ; others prefer flour dust.
On average, a person sheds about 1.5 grams of skin cells and flakes every day -LRB- approximately 0.3-0 .45 kg per year -RRB-, which is enough to feed roughly a million dust mites under ideal conditions..
Although a music video was never produced, given MTV 's influence on sales for Thriller at the time, it still remains a hit today for many of Jackson listeners.
When this concept is associated with the adjective `` human '', it is used to signify that all human beings possess inherent worth and deserve unconditional respect, regardless of age, sex, health status, social or ethnic origin, political ideas, religion, or criminal history.
Modern arguments suggest any judicial, political or government control over the interests of people engenders moral obligations of the highest responsibility and trust.
Actors' conduct should therefore be judged by the most exacting fiduciary standards.
The trains design is a result of cooperation between DSB 's own designers, stressing Nordic minimalistic design, and the Italian design company Pininfarina, famous for designing Ferrari cars, stressing Italian sexyness and curves.
` Acceptable Use Policy' : The acceptable use policy has been criticized for containing this passage :.
Because Tatu Vanhanen is the father of Matti Vanhanen, the Finnish Prime minister, his work has received wide publicity in Finland.
It has also been severely criticized.
Icelanders also have access to excellent healthcare and education.
Mary 's complete faithfulness could be the fruit of being sinless, as she could not then reject Christ in the darkest hour.
In support to this doctrine, it also does not appear fit that Christ, God-incarnate, should be born in sinful vessel.
According to some authors, the fluidity of the caste system was affected by the arrival of the British.
On one occasion, the band vomited on Christmas trees on stage.
McCabe was also infamous for egging Hare-Krishna devotees and throwing yogurt at Earth Crisis.
Unfortunately, the sad truth is that most learners are essentially novices, yet many expect them to act like experts.
Several different Catholic inquisitions were employed, and while this may seem strange in a modern secular world, matters of faith were taken as a given and otherwise as works of the devil in that long ago period.
By diverting the DART line from the north to Dublin 's new Docklands developments and thence under the city, through the Interconnector / DART Underground, to Dublin 's westerly Heuston Station, much more capacity for DART can be provided.
The DART line will then proceed to Dublin 's westerly suburbs, replacing some existing commuter services with much more frequent electric DART trains that will connect directly with the city centre.
There is a debate over the effectiveness and usefulness of caucuses in Iowa.
Additionally, the representation of the caucus has been questioned due to traditionally low turnout.
Others question the permanent feature of having caucuses in certain states, while perpetually ignoring the rest of the country.
` Jaime T. Licauco', popularly known as ` Jimmy Licauco', is a renowned parapsychologist, author, and management practitioner in the Philippines.
He started as a child performer in his parents' company, with Le Cirque Imaginaire, later Le Cirque Invisible -- these were modern traveling circuses which some credit as a source of inspiration for the Cirque du Soleil.
Leigh 's best-known role was as the morally ambiguous Marion Crane in the Alfred Hitchcock classic 1960 film ` Psycho'.
In spite of her outstanding, performance as Crane, Leigh went through typecasting and spent most of her career doing guest appearances on TV shows.
Years later, she wrote a book about the making of ` Psycho', in which she dispelled the urban legends which had popped up around it, notably, about the immortal `` shower scene. ''.
-LRB- This record was later broken by Houston, who allegedly had sex 620 times with approximately the same number of men, although some accounts say the intercourse counts are greatly exaggerated. -RRB-.
Upon appointment, Faires began transforming Lionsgate Music -LRB- LGM -RRB- into the leading independent music publisher it is becoming today.
Although she has appeared on TV several times, Carson is not considered a TV star.
Over the past 25 years, Jim has inspired, instructed, and provided strategic and winning direction for employees and associates from more than 300 organizations, including Allianz, Bayer Corporation, Buena Vista Home Entertainment, Coca-Cola, Dunkin’ Donuts, Evergreen Financial, GE Access, Gore Medical, John Hancock, Next Financial, Time Inc., Walt Disney, Welch 's, and other companies that hold some of the world 's most recognized brands.
After appearing as a child in several commercials, Foster made her first credited TV appearance on The Doris Day Show.
Joel was recognized by the Board due to his ministry work, for his much noted generous help to people in need, and for his steadfast commitment in helping millions of people through his best seller books.
` John Parris' -LRB- born 1952 -RRB-, of Forest Hill, London, England, is one of the worlds most prominent manufacturers of handmade snooker cues.
Supporters often play down the problems in the story, saying the posts can be re-interpreted and thus be `` correct '', in a manner of speaking.
One example of this is the claim that Titor may have been talking about ` Summer' Olympics only, in which case it is not until the 2008 Olympics that the claim can be verified.
The lack of any obvious sort of civil war in the United States is generally claimed to be due to a slow rise in tensions ; Titor 's date of 2004 is what would point to only in retrospect.
The status of these detainees is hotly disputed.
The U.S. calls them enemy combatants, as their status was not recognized under the Geneva Conventions -LRB- due to not being affiliated with any government, being alleged members of Al Qaida or groups affiliated with them -RRB-.
Mixing tobacco in with the cannabis is much more common in some areas partly because the majority of cannabis is resin which can not be smoked on its own in a joint.
People who use tobacco claim it helps the joint burn, when loose tobacco acts as `` kindling '' to ignite the moister and denser cannabis, while some non-tobacco smokers claim that tobacco destroys the cannabis high.
Some smokers also avoid mixing cannabis with tobacco for fear of becoming addicted to tobacco.
Some believe that heating the tobacco before use gets rid of any nicotine and other unhealthy substances.
He enjoyed great popularity in this area as a writer and editor until 1859 when he left ` Le Courrier du Canada' to pursue other writing full time.
Williams participated in a 2007 conversation with Fox 's Bill O'Reilly in which O'Reilly made comments criticized as racist.
Human rights monitoring organizations and political analysts in several parts of the world continually report that the actual situation in North Korea bears no resemblance to Juche theory.
They also claim that the opinions of the people have no actual weight in decision-making, which is under Kim Jong-il 's autocratic control.
In addition to achieving high sales and being placed on bestsellers' lists, ` Mao : The Unknown Story' received largely positive reviews in the newspapers and the general media, most of whom were not specialists on China.
Some of the world 's leading China experts have criticised the book, and some of the world 's most eminent scholars of modern Chinese history have said that it is a `` gross distortion of the records ''.
The transmitter is located in Portland 's west hills ; the studio is in downtown Portland ; the license location of Banks, Oregon is likely due to technicalities of the frequency 's licensing history.
Many accounts, including Muslim accounts, and some accounts written by academic historians, stress the power and importance of the pre-Islamic Mecca.
They depict it as a city grown rich on the proceeds of the spice trade.
Modern DNA studies on the Y chromosome of Jews worldwide have largely discredited the Khazar origin theory.
` King 's College' is an independent secondary school in New Zealand, and is considered to be one of the most prestigious schools in the country.
King is frequently accused of Infotainment, `` soft-ball '' questions, and pandering to sensationalist news stories ; for instance, the death of Anna Nicole Smith had taken up most of King 's shows since the event, causing the cancellation of numerous guests and interviews that were already scheduled.
Judge Seidlin was involved in some controversial actions, such as making one-liners and other attempts at humor which some who know him said is normal for him, but led many to speculate that his actions and comments were for the cameras in the courtroom and were made as an attempt to secure a courtroom television show similar to Judge Judy 's.
The judgment was given in what some have viewed as an overly theatrical style, with the Judge weeping and fumbling his words, though others close to him have said that his courtroom conduct was genuine.
Summers' dismissal was viewed by many as an indicator that the humanities faculty at the College had power that was disproportionately large relative to their contributions to the University, and that they would seek to use their entrenched position as tenured faculty to block curricular reforms, championed by Summers, that would place greater emphasis on math and science.
During the primary, Lee was accused of profiting from real estate speculation from land that he owned in Dogok, a highly expensive district in Seoul.
It was formerly known as Anorex -LRB- see anorexia -RRB-.
He is left-handed and regarded as one of the most promising Asian snooker prospects.
More modern sets also come with figures of humans and animals that match the scale of the buildings.
Many policy analysts consider literacy rates a crucial measure of a region 's human capital.
Recent researchers, however, argue that correlations such as the one listed above may have more to do with the overall effects of schooling rather than literacy alone.
In addition to the potential for literacy to increase wealth, wealth may promote literacy, through cultural norms and easier access to schools and tutoring services.
Brian is an independant who has a large amount of popular support.
He was voted the most inspiring political figure of 2006 by channel 4 viewers by a huge margin ahead of both Tony Blair and David Cameron.
However, the bridge was deemed absolutely necessary as a rail link between north and south Dublin, and to facilitate the movement of transatlantic mail coming from Kingstown -LRB- Dún Laoghaire -RRB- and Queenstown -LRB- Cobh -RRB-.
Foods high in digestible carbohydrates are limited or replaced with foods containing a higher percentage of proteins and fats.
Three strands may be detected, though they can not always be disentangled from each other.
Some consider Lemieux to be the most dominating hockey player ever.
Fans and other hockey players have speculated that had he been healthy for his whole career, his achievements would have been much greater.
Furthermore, it can be inferred that the doctrinal statement of the church planting network he co-founded,, is a reliable overview of his beliefs.
She is thought by some to have been the model for the character of the operatic soprano, Olga Bracely, in the Lucia novels of E F Benson.
Thus it has been often reported in European media, including countries involved in operations in Iraq, that a large minority of American soldiers and Marines in Iraq have been able to behave irresponsibly in Iraq, causing unnecessary deaths of civilians.
At the same time, many believe that US forces have come under little US media scrutiny, except in the most extreme cases.
One of the main functions of sleep is thought to be to improve consolidation of information, as it can be shown that memory depends on getting sufficient sleep between training and test, and that the hippocampus replays activity from the current day while sleeping.
The ` Metropolitan Special' was the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad 's workhorse train on its route of the National Limited between New York City and St. Louis, Missouri with major station stops in Washington DC and Cincinnati, Ohio.
This train made more station stops than its more famous sister, the National Limited.
The most important shift in masculinity is that there is less avoidance of femininity and the `` emergence of a segment of men who have embraced customs and attitudes once deemed the province of women. ''.
What is accepted as `` masculine '' has shifted considerably throughout the times, so the modern concept of how a man `` should be '' differs from the ideal man of previous eras.
Some styles and behaviors that are today considered feminine were, in the past, part of the man 's domain -LRB- e.g., knee britches, makeup, jewelry -RRB-.
Perhaps metrosexuality is a reaction against this shift, as some men feel too confined within the gender roles.
It could also be considered a means of establishing greater equality between the sexes through a shift toward androgyny.
It 's been said that Anglo and Mexican American communities throughout the history of the Southwestern states were like `` separate worlds '' as the U.S. and Mexico are separate countries, especially before the 1960s since residential segregation and discrimination became illegal.
King Michael `` did not want to go back, but American and British personalities -LSB- present at the wedding -RSB- encouraged him to do so, '' according to `` Romanian royalist circles '' quoted by ` The Washington Post'.
After his return to Romania, Michael was apparently forced to abdicate, on December 30, 1947.
However, in an earlier 1973 interview to the Romanian-Israeli magazine `` Viata noastra, '' Michael stated that he had `` prefered '' to work as an ex-king rather than continue to sit on a permanently threatened throne, casting some doubt over his later accounts of Communist blackmail.
Also, a report in Time magazine about Michael 's negociations in early 1948 with the Romanian Communist Government over his fortunes left behind in Romania, casts similar doubts : `` he had been negotiating with the Communists for the salvage of some of his Romanian properties, '' states Time.
It is a well known fact that Le Vell once made unsuccessful sexual advances towards co-star Eileen Derbyshire -LRB- Emily Bishop -RRB-.
It is believed that Le Vell once drank co-star Bruce Jones under the table at a cast party, in what is now a legendary exchange due to the fact that both men had drunk well over 40 pints before Jones conceded defeat.
Mielikki is based on a historical Mielikki from Finnish mythology, supposedly having been active in more than one plane of existence.
In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries political and military leaders reformed the US federal government to establish a stronger central government than had ever previously existed for the purpose of enabling the nation to pursue an imperial policy in the Pacific and in the Caribbean and economic militarism to support the development of the new industrial economy.
No one knows just how these octopuses got their special talent.
Some researchers think that their ability to mimic is genetic or the product of a long evolution.
It is possible that octopuses that patterned themselves or moved in a way that looked like a poisonous animal were the ones that lived and other octopuses were eaten, according to Mark Norman.
It would be hard to believe that this octopus just watches passing creatures and practices impersonating them, but no one can say for sure because there have been such few studies or observations on the Mimic Octopus.
Others argue that the octopus 's mimicry is sexually selected and that its complex behaviors are simply displays of courtship that are misinterpreted as mimicry.
The group also provides a range of apologetics for Christianity.
There are claims that its use increased soya production by 75 % and increased yields by 173 % over five years till 2002, giving good profitability to farmers.
Unlike the video formats specified in international standards such as MPEG-2 and the format specified in the JPEG still-picture coding standard, there is no document that defines a single exact format that is universally recognized as a complete specification of `` Motion JPEG '' for use in all contexts.
This raises compatibility concerns about file outputs from different manufacturers.
As a result, MJPEG is an outdated and inefficient codec, whose main advantages are low processor overhead, ease of implementation by developers using existing JPEG algorithms or libraries, and broad compatibility.
These features are not to be undervalued, as many applications in high framerate real time image processing require a stable open-source solution that can be easily implemented with a minimal impact on the processor load.
Where processor overhead and/or security concerns with proprietary code are more significant than bandwidth, MJPEG is clearly superior to MPEG-4.
` Mustelidae' or ` Mustelids' -LRB- from Latin ` mustela', weasel -RRB-, commonly referred to as the ` weasel family', is a family of carnivorous mammals.
The Mustelidae is a diverse family and the largest in the order Carnivora, at least partly because it has in the past been a catch-all category for many early or poorly differentiated taxa.
` Erik von Markovik' -LRB- born ` Erik James Horvat-Markovic' on September 24 1971 -RRB-, Getlen, Larry -LRB- August 5 2007 -RRB- better known by the stage name ` Mystery', is an innovator in the seduction community, a main character in the non-fiction book ` The Game : Penetrating the Secret Society of Pickup Artists' by Neil Strauss, is featured in the VH1 reality television series ` The Pick-up Artist' and is considered to be the most successful pickup artist in the world.
Local protest groups and environmentalists allege that the tests have caused widespread damage to the local environment, various health problems among the local population, and damaged the ozone layer, specifically through the release of the chemical bromotrifluoride into the upper atmosphere.
They also allege that the experiments were a covert military project connected to the development of new weapons and surveillance techniques.
Initially, accurate transcription rates of 85-90 % are to be reasonably expected.
Some say the New World Order is being implemented gradually, citing the foundation of the Federal Reserve bank ; American Imperialism and economic Colonialism, the formation of the United Nations ; the formation of the World Health Organization, the World Bank and the World Trade Organization ; the formation of the European Union and the Euro currency ; the formations of the North American Union and the Amero currency, the Middle East Free Trade Area, the African Union, and the various Middle East peace processes as major milestones.
Arafat was regarded by critics as a terrorist leader for many years.
He had also been responsible for the aggressive Israeli crackdown of the First Intifada while Defense Minister.
The clinical ramifications and knowledge of COX isozymes are rapidly expanding and may offer significant hope for future treatments of pain, inflammation, and fever.
Bodies of scholarship in fields such as American, ethnic, Chicano/a, and globalization studies have examined the proliferation of human rights abuses in maquiladoras along the U.S.-Mexico border in connection with the ratification of NAFTA.
In the period from then to 2001, upwards of 300 women have been murdered, some brutally violated and their bodies mutilated, some 400 have disappeared, and others have been tortured in connection with the maquiladoras and to maximize the productivity of the labor force, primarily in the vicinity of the border city of Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua, across the border from El Paso, Texas.
Leaders from both companies purportedly hope this will lead to better compatibility between Microsoft Office and OpenOffice.org and better virtualization techniques.
According to experts, if the president, who is commander-in-chief, decided to order the use of nuclear weapons, he would be taken aside and the aide would open the briefcase.
At that point, the aide and the president would review the attack options and decide upon a plan, such as a single cruise missile or a large ICBM launch.
Next, using the SATCOM radio, the aide would make contact with the National Military Command Center or, in a post-first-strike situation, an airborne command-post plane -LRB- likely a Boeing E-4B -RRB-.
Before the order would be processed by the military, the president must positively identify himself or herself by using a special code issued to him on a plastic card, nicknamed the `` biscuit. ''.
Once all the codes had been verified, the military would issue attack orders to the proper units.
Others claim evolution is unfalsifiable in large part because, like theories such as gravitation, evolution is so widely confirmed, and so foundational, that the likelihood of any evidence disproving it wholesale -LRB- as opposed to merely refining it -RRB- has become increasingly improbable and difficult to the point of virtual impossibility.
Others claim that past events of speciation are not observable and repeatable, and therefore evolution is not falsifiable.
The ` October Crisis' was a series of dramatic events triggered by two terrorist kidnappings of government officials by members of the Front de libération du Québec in the province of Quebec, Canada, in October 1970, which ultimately resulted in a brief invocation of the War Measures Act by Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau and the deployment of the national army in Quebec and in the national capital Ottawa.
Oil in the ground is not a `` reserve '' unless it is claimed to be economically recoverable, since as the oil is extracted, the cost of recovery increases incrementally as the amount of oil remaining is reduced.
The recovery factor -LRB- RF -RRB- is the percentage of oil in place which is expected to be economically recoverable under a given set of conditions.
Oleg is known for his powerful punch in his right hand, he has knocked out former WBO Heavyweight challenger Derrick Jefferson, contender Alex Stewart, former WBC Heavyweight champion Hasim Rahman -LRB- twice -RRB- and Toakipa Tasefa, among others.
The acceptance or rejection of this principle is a major factor in relations between the People 's Republic of China -LRB- PRC -RRB-, which governs mainland China, Hong Kong, and Macau, and the Republic of China -LRB- ROC -RRB-, which governs Taiwan.
The ` binational solution', also known as the ` One-State Solution', is a proposed resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Though hotly debated in academic circles, it has been eclipsed by the two-state solution, most recently agreed on at the November 2007 Annapolis Conference.
` Operation Grand Slam' is virtually synonymous with the 1965 Indo-Pakistani War.
In Turkey, the award of the Nobel Prize has given a new slant to discussion of his allegedly `` anti-Turkish '' comments, and some people in Turkey believe that he was given the Nobel Prize for being anti-Turkish and not for his writing.
Which has been argued encourages its practice by quacks and charlatans or self administration.
However there is anecdotal evidence of ozone therapy having caused remission in a variety of diseases, but only a few of these life saving administrations of ozone therapy can be verified.
It has been suggested that Ashdown worked for MI6 while a diplomat in Geneva in the 1970s, but he has publicly denied this.
A significant investment was made in eliminating disease from the area, particularly yellow fever and malaria, the causes of which had recently been discovered -LRB- see Health measures during the construction of the Panama Canal -RRB-.
With the diseases under control, and after significant work on preparing the infrastructure, construction of an elevated canal with locks began in earnest.
Culturally, the Pandinos are considered part of the so-called Camba culture of the Bolivian lowlands.
It has been remarked that the Camba dialect, as well as the customs of the inhabitants of Bolivia 's tropical lowlands, are almost purely Andalusian.
The ruling aristocracy from 1500 until the mid 19th Century was of Turkic', -LRB- Central Asian -RRB-, and Persian origin, and it was they who introduced paneer to India, although some have theorised that paneer came to the Persians, Indians and Greeks much earlier.
As a result, in many parts of India, paneer is an aspirational food, and defines sumptuousness in vegetarian feasts.
The Holden Sandman is probably the best-remembered of these : for example, one of the vehicles driven by Mel Gibson in the 1979 movie ` Mad Max' was thought to be either a Sandman or a customised Kingswood panel van -LRB- apparently a 1975 HJ model in both cases -RRB-.
The soft engine mounts made the clutch difficult for an inexperienced driver to operate smoothly.The unusual engine had an unusual sound that led some people to think it was a two stroke.
The first and second lines sometimes appear completely disconnected in meaning from the third and fourth, but there is almost invariably a link of some sort.
This accentuates the curves of the legs, making them less `` flat '', and can also make legs appear slimmer -LRB- with dark pantyhose -RRB-. \ n They often have a silky texture which is pleasing to both the wearer and her partner. \ n They enhance the pleasure -LRB- and anticipation -RRB- associated with the removal of a woman 's clothes.
Not only serving as an additional item to be removed ; they allow the exciting moment of exposure to be drawn out much longer than other clothing items, as the pantyhose are slowly pulled down the legs.
However, some manufacturers also produce ` pantyhose for men' -LRB- or male pantyhose, or men 's legwear -RRB-.
Being so strongly associated with women 's clothing in many people 's minds, it was at first difficult to overcome societal obstacles to men wearing pantyhose.
He may have ancestors among Florentine stock to which belonged the Ghibelline leader Farinata degli Uberti, celebrated in Dante 's ` Divina Commedia'.
He was instructed, according to Giorgio Vasari, by his father and by the Veronese Niccolo Giolfino, and probably by Antonio Badile and Domenico del Riccio -LRB- Brusasorci -RRB-.
Mazzurana is considered as the symbol of an age of great progress from the civil and social point of view and from a more strictly economic one of the city and of the entire Trentino.
Most of his life he spent in the service of various royal and aristocratic families.
Most likely he was organist at Santa Maria Maggiore from around 1608 until his death.
Towards the end of his life he was much respected, if not renowned, by his fellow composers, as can be judged from dedications of collections of music to him ; however, some of this may have been less due to the quality of his music than to his direct papal connections and immense influence.
At the Lateran Synod of 13 April 1059 Nicholas II decreed -LRB- In nomine Domini -RRB- that the pope is to be elected by the six cardinal bishops.' quoting in footnote 30 ` Hans Kühner, Das Imperium der Päpste -LRB- Frankfurt am Main : Fischer Taschenbuch Verlag, 1980 -RRB- 128 : Eine Synode im Lateran brachte ein Papstwahldekret heraus, nach welchem Klerus und Volk der Kardinäle nur noch zustimmen konnten.', Aquinas Publishing Ltd Since then other details of the process have developed.
Conversely, other reviewers complained that the graphics were not much of a visual upgrade from its predecessor, ` Paper Mario'.
However, recently it has been said that `` Shadows and Regrets '' is about Scott Shad, former drummer of Inspection 12 and best friend of Ryan Key, who died in a car crash.
According to popular misconception the sound is supposed to be caused by the paper breaking the sound barrier.
Most papers work for poppers, although some are louder than others.
While less common in office use, it is used for a variety of special situations.
Six pilots were involved in a raid that supposedly destroyed 15 Japanese aircraft on the ground, giving each man 2.5 victory credits for the raid.
The Central government claimed this as part of China 's sovereign territorial waters, commonly known as `` China 's blue territories ''.
The P450 gene is highly polymorphic, however, and individual differences in paracetamol toxicity are believed to be due to a third isoenzyme, CYP2D6.
Following overdose, and possibly also in extensive and ultrarapid metabolizers, this detoxification pathway becomes saturated and consequently NAPQI accumulates.
The public and some critics received the show coolly.
A number felt the show took too many liberties in the use of racial slurs.
Most critics, however, praised the show, especially the score.
Parades are much less common among nationalist or republican communities.
Unlike unionist parades, the vast majority of nationalist/republican parades do not have religious associations.The broadly nationalist Ancient Order of Hibernians are sometimes regarded as the ` green Orange Order'.
A few species are migratory, but the majority are resident.
The most telling characteristic of the genus is the long tail streamers of the males of many species.
And, perhaps, even usually she is not.and stated the paradox of thrift in ` The General Theory,' 1936 :.
In 1943, the United States Navy Beach Jumper Unit -LRB- a deception unit -RRB- conducted tests using parachute dummies made of a non-magnetic metal, probably lead or aluminum.
It is believed that he brought the idea with him from Great Britain, where he was stationed for a time.
Forty-eight hours before the elections, Laíno and several other National Accord members were placed under house arrest.
It is argued between the characters whether these `` shadows '' even exist before they 're imagined by a member of the royal family of Amber, or if the `` shadows' '' existence can be seen as an act of godlike creation.
Parambikulam was once home to some of south India 's finest strands of Teak.
Little remains of the original Teak forests, other than the famous Kannimara teak tree, allegedly the largest tree in Asia.
In the United Kingdom, ambulance services became largely municipal services, with some exceptions, shortly after the end of World War Two.
Initially, many of these individuals were trained internally by the services that employed them, with the step to Paramedic being a logical career path progression for an experienced Ambulance Technician.
They are said to have more statistical power.
For that reason they are often not considered robust.
In some, but definitely not all, cases their simplicity makes up for their non-robustness, especially if care is taken to examine diagnostic statistics.David Freedman, Statistical Models : Theory and Practice, Cambridge University Press -LRB- 2000 -RRB-, ISBN 978-0521671057.
Railway Protection Force - 70,000 personnel who provide Police Security to Indian Railways -LRB- Headed by Indian Police Service Officer -RRB- \ n Indian Home Guard : 600,000 personnel -LRB- Headed by Indian Police Service Officer -RRB- \ n Civil Defence : 376,000 -LRB- Headed by Indian Police Service Officer -RRB- \ n Special Protection Group : 3000 personnel -LRB- Headed by Indian Police Service Officer -RRB- \ n The State Armed Police -LRB- Pradeshik -RRB- - 450,000 persons who act as a mobile armed reserve maintained at key locations in some states and activated only on the orders from the Additional Commissioner of Police or higher-level.
While some other related disorders result in muscle atrophy, this is not normally the case with PC.
There are some Latin inscriptions from 2nd and 3rd century, when the local Parliament of Fotiki was active, meanwhile it seems that the city was active also during the period after.
In the area were found, besides the Latin inscriptions, some other ancient findings testimonial of a great cultural activity.
Muslims in Parangipettai can trace their origin to several locations, particularly in the Middle East and North India.
` Maraicar' the name originally derived from the old Tamil term ` Marakkalangalin aayargal' meaning ` Kings of Ships' said to be given by the Southern Tamil King Vijaya Raghunadha Sedhupathy Thondamaan -LRB- shortly King Sethu -RRB- to the coastal Muslim sea traders who were then reigning the most of the coastal areas with their trade.
While parapsychological research has occasionally appeared in mainstream academic journals, most of the recent research is published in a small number of niche journals.
-LRB- This is probably because Ray 's films had begun to be quite popular in France. -RRB-.
For this reason, some DVDs of the film include the title '' ` Parash Pathar -LRB- la pierre philosophale -RRB-', '' i.e. the title in Bengali and French, respectively.
He was considered on par with Dronacharya, the Guru who instructed the Pandavas in the epic of the Mahabharata.
The parashu was also known as the most lethal close combat weapon of the epics.
In the aquarium, ` P. polleni' are more cautious and easily spooked than many of the more readily available cichlids, but otherwise adaptable to aquarium life.
It is just four feet away from another Brahmi inscription discovered by some scholars in 1971.
As the orthography of this inscription resembles that of Mangulam inscriptions -LRB- also in Madurai district -RRB-, its date may be assigned to 3rd century B.C., say the sources.
In some situations, the parties may have submitted their dispute to formal arbitration proceedings.
Even though there might appear to be a grant of custody in absolute terms by this court, public policy always requires that it can be reviewed by a secular court and, if the state court is of the view that it is not in the best interests of the child, it will be set aside -LRB- see ` Stanley G. v. Eileen G.'.
However some popular parental discussions about money and things have nothing to do with parenting.
The city 's most prized museum, the Louvre, welcomes over 8 million visitors a year, being by far the world 's most-visited art museum.
The Eiffel Tower, by far Paris' most famous monument, averages over six million visitors per year and more than 200 million since its construction.
The admission to the Ingénieur degree is widely known as being highly selective.
Although criticizing Einaudi on some points, Thibaud also underlined that Brunet had consulted only police archives and took the registers of the IML medico-legal institute at face value.
The length was condemned by Giovanni Pozza, the most influential Italian critic, in his comment on the first performance.
Notable species include Slender Bedstraw -LRB- ` Galium pumilum' -RRB-, Adder 's Tongue -LRB- ` Ophioglossum' -RRB-, Horseshoe Vetch -LRB- ` Hippocrepis comosa' -RRB- and Columbine -LRB- ` Aquilegia vulgaris' -RRB-. Fourteen species of orchid are known to grow at the reserve including some of the UK 's rarest species.
My Indiana :101 Places to See', by Earl L. Conn -LRB- Indiana Historical Society Press, 2006 -RRB-. pg .120 -- > This is due to several reasons, mainly due to the numerous streams and creeks in the county, and having the natural resources and designers to build the bridges.
A popular parlance for sexual activity in public, derived from the cultural phenomenon of `` parking '' as depicted in many shows and movies about the 1950s 60s and 70s.
New York real estate investor, David Augustine Palame, started the country 's most influential car-parking publication, `` Put it in Park, Fellow '', in 1942.
In the fall of 2006, the football team finished undefeated in the regular season for the first time ever, leading many to call the team the school 's best ever.
` Belle Vue Park' - During the 1970s Bellevue Park was neglected and many of the amenities were in a poor state of repair.
Even though the building 's symmetrical layout with a frontal clock tower rising amidships is typical of legislative institutions of British heritage, the architectural style is believed to be unique among parliament buildings found in other Canadian provincial capitals.
Some strong monarchs even bypassed it completely, although this was not often possible in the case of financial legislation due to the post-Magna Carta convention of parliament granting taxes.
On some occasions the Commons were summoned and sent home again once the monarch was finished with them, allowing parliament to continue without them.
This was a trend seen in other European nations as monarchical power grew stronger -- for instance England under Henry VII, France and some of the Spanish Cortes Generales.Tanner, ` Late Medieval Scottish Parliament', passim.
In many republics based on the British parliamentary model, the head of state is elected by Parliament ; however, since 1993, the President of Singapore has been popularly elected.
Reformists, who seek greater democracy in Iran and closer ties with the West, showed strength in some cities where the clerical leadership allowed them to compete.
` Parliamentary sovereignty', ` Sovereignty of Parliament', ` parliamentary supremacy', or ` legislative supremacy' is a concept in constitutional law that applies to some parliamentary democracies.
He is said to have acted as a foil to his commander 's innovative strategies, by expertly formulating the orthodox strategy.
In any event, the outcome may have tempered any youthful brashness on the part of Alexander, for he proceeded very cautiously the next six months or so, almost dawdling as he liberated Greek cities in Asia Minor, and that muting of his aggressiveness is more in line with a near defeat.
The most notable of these religions may be Discordianism.
With Discordianism, it may be hard to tell if even these `` serious '' followers are not just taking part in an even bigger joke.
However, many modern cases have found merger clauses to be only a rebuttable presumption.
While every town possesses their own particularities, Parandas in general, follow a very similar structure of events based on their very roots and while they might look similar to Carnivals they actually do n't share much common ground.
Some people are multilingual.
Some of these multilingual have learned second or third languages in concert with their first, at a young age, and some have learned other languages in their adulthood.
Studies on different subsets of monolinguals and multilinguals have revealed some interesting findings.
One of these was an enterprising agent named Rustom Maneck who had probably already amassed a fortune under the Dutch and Portuguese.
Thus, by the mid-18th century, the brokerage houses of the Bombay Presidency were almost all in Parsi hands.
As James Forbes, the Collector of Broach -LRB- now Bharuch -RRB-, would note in his ` Oriental Memoirs' -LRB- 1770 -RRB- : `` many of the principal merchants and owners of ships at Bombay and Surat are Parsees. ''.
Gradually certain families `` acquired wealth and prominence -LRB- Sorabji, Modi, Cama, Wadia, Jeejeebhoy, Readymoney, Dadyseth, Petit, Patel, Mehta, Allbless, Tata, etc. -RRB-, many of which would be noted for their participation in the public life of the city, and for their various educational, industrial, and charitable enterprises. '' -LRB- ; ` cf.' -RRB-.
The use of curly leaf parsley may be favored by some because it can not be confused with poison hemlock, like flat leaf parsley or chervil.
` Mason Locke Weems' -LRB- October 11 1756 - may 23 1825 -RRB-, generally known as ` Parson Weems', was an American printer and author.
He is best known as the source of some of the apocryphal stories about George Washington, including the famous tale of the cherry tree -LRB- `` I can not tell a lie, I did it with my little hatchet '' -RRB-.
` The Life of Washington', Weems' most famous work, contained the story.
Citing the Supreme Court case of ` Doe v. Bolton', some pro-life supporters have asserted that the word `` health '' would render any legal restriction meaningless, because of the broad and vague interpretation of `` health. '' in Gonzales v. Planned Parenthood -LRB- 2006-08-03 -RRB-.
This was of particular concern when it came to anticipated arguments that such a definition would encompass `` mental health, '' which some thought would inevitably be expanded by court decisions to include the prevention of depression or other non-physical conditions.
` ReligiousTolerance.org' Retrieved April 18, 2007. Health is one of several reasons why women have chosen to get second trimester abortions, and then this particular procedure has been chosen for additional reasons.
However, some workers in a capitalist society do little else but attend meetings.
Thus, while it would be the case that more people attend meetings in the workplace, the total time spent in meetings as a whole might be similar.
PV is used all over the world and has been applied in many different situations, from advocacy and enabling greater participation in development projects to providing a therapeutic and communicative environment for the mentally ill or disempowered.
Methods vary from practitioner to practitioner, some choosing to keep the process more open, and others preferring to guide the subjects more, or even to wield the camera themselves.
This quality of flexibility enables PV to be applied to many different situations.
PIV itself found its roots in Laser speckle velocimetry, a technique that several groups began experimenting with in the late 1970s.
The Standard Model has been found to agree with almost all the experimental tests conducted to date.
However, most particle physicists believe that it is an incomplete description of nature, and that a more fundamental theory awaits discovery.
Following partition some social and sporting bodies divided but others did not.
Sports organised on an all-Ireland basis are affiliated to the Republic of Ireland 's Olympic association, whereas those organised on a Northern Ireland or UK basis are generally affiliated to the UK 's Olympic association.
Often, parts-per notation is the simplest and best measure.
But other times, it is less suitable or even impossible.
This sometimes results in agencies such as the World Health Organization or US EPA presenting entire tables of air concentrations that use the weight/volume method, when parts-per notation might have more readily worked for many -LRB- but not all -RRB- substances present.
While many contaminants can be easily described using parts-per notation, a few of them present a much more complex picture.
As one of the most active members of the coalition.
There is no proof that Parvatibai was treated as adopted child of Chattrapati Shahu and came from other caste.
Hence, it is of remote possibility that she was from other caste.
Parviz Yahaghi 's most widely distributed recordings outside Iran is, perhaps, the five-volume '' ` Persian Melodies' '' collection -LRB- five compact discs -RRB-.
The origins of pas d'armes can be found in a number of factors.
At the same time, the noble classes began to differentiate themselves, in many ways, including through reading courtly literature such as the very popular chivalric romances of the 12th century.
Today, several bands of Tongva people live in the Los Angeles area.
After the introduction of SI units, many preferred to preserve the customary pressure figures.
Since official metrication, meteorologists in Canada use kilopascals -LRB- kPa -RRB-, see for example and, although in some other countries hectopascals are still in use, see for example,,,, and.
Due to increased congestion, it is planned to be upgraded from two to four lanes, and possibly upgraded from a county road to a state road. \ n State Road 52 -LRB- Colonel Schrader Memorial Highway -RRB- an east-west route that runs primarily through the center of the county from US 19 in Bayonet Point to US 98-301 in Dade City. \ n State Road 54 -LRB- Gunn Highway/Fifth Avenue -RRB- another east-west road that runs through southern Pasco County, from US 19 near Holiday to US 301 in Zephyrhills. \ n State Road 56 a 2002-constructed road between SR 54 and Bruce B. Downs Boulevard in Wesley Chapel.
Due to its higher poverty level, Pasco was seen by many as the least desirable of the three cities and over time became the smallest of the Tri-Cities in terms of population.
` Pascual Contursi' -LRB- November 18, 1888 - May 28, 1932 -RRB- was an Argentine poet, singer, and guitarist. He composed lyrics for 33 tango compositions - many well-known.
Incredibly slender at 6 ft 2 in, 162 lb., he was probably better known for his on-field and off-field antics than his pitching talent.
Also a showboater, he often drew the ire of many of his opponents.
In Pakistan it is watched in NWFP, Balochistan and Karachi whereas abroad it is watched in Afghanistan, Middle East and in some European countries.
Despite some improvement provincially the Pashtunistan issue was inherited by the new state of Pakistan and would cause diplomatic problems with Afghanistan.
The Afghan government responded to the incident with a declaration that it found the Durand Line agreement of 1893 to be null and void and this prompted some measure of hostile relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan.
While some Paso Finos will perform the trocha, it is discouraged and considered a fault in the purebred Paso Fino.
The autograph manuscript of BWV 582 is currently considered lost ; the work, as is typical for Bach 's and contemporary composers' works, is known only through a number of copies.
There is some evidence that the original was notated in organ tablature.Williams, 182.
It is possible that BWV 582 was composed in Arnstadt soon after Bach 's return from LübeckWolff, 94.
SSR messages returned with a `` KK '' status indicates the involved carrier has acknowledged and confirmed the request.In more recent times, many governments now require the airline to provide further information included to assist investigators tracing criminals or terrorists.These include : \ nPassengers' gender \ nPassport details - nationality, number, and date of expiry.
In some countries, convicts are transported from court to prison or from prison to another by railway.
Technologically the limitations are by no means beyond reach, however conventional trains begin to encounter several physical obstacles, most notably track damage and pantograph limitations.
In some cases, tickets are sold with no seat assigned -LRB- ??, ` wu zuo' -RRB-, which allows the railway to sell more tickets than there are seats in the car.
Now some CRH series EMU trains also have soft sleepers, such as CRH1E and CRH2E. \ n Luxury soft sleeper -LRB- ?????? or -RRB- is the top level sleeper that is only owned by a few trains.
Therefore, passing is not just an option but is seen as a necessity by many.
Slow start is generally preferred by beginners, but fast start is more popular amongst confirmed passers.There are three main types of rhythm.
The rules generally require that two-count passing be used, and that the number of successful catches be four times the number of props, in order for a passing attempt to be successful.
In many areas, tractor trailers are banned from using the hammer lane for safety reasons ; these restrictions are normally found along urban, often congested highways with multiple lanes -LRB- e.g. Interstate 40 west of Raleigh, North Carolina -RRB-, or on rural freeways with 6 or more lanes -LRB- 3 in each direction -RRB-.
HOV lanes are not usually considered hammer lanes, but are also used for express travel by commuters.
The poems were translated into many other languages, including Latin, English, Chinese and Danish.
In addition, a selection of texts were translated by Anglican Bishop Charles Venn Pilcher and published in a pamphlet entitled `` Thirty-One Meditations on Christ 's Passion '' ; this translation, although incomplete, is regarded as more true to the Lutheran theology of Hallgrímur Pétursson.
Thomas Strutz wrote a passion -LRB- 1664 -RRB- with arias for Jesus himself, pointing to the standard oratorio tradition of Schütz, Carissimi, and others, although these composers seem to have thought that putting words in Jesus' mouth was beyond the pale.
Probably the most famous musical setting of the Passion narrative is Part II of ` Messiah', an oratorio by George Frideric Handel.
The most highly publicised example of PFP systems which were not subject of certification and were declared ` inoperable' by the Authority Having Jurisdiction is the ` Thermo-Lag scandal', which was brought to light by whistleblower Gerald W. Brown, who notified the Nuclear Regulatory Commission of the inadequacy of fire testing for circuit integrity measures in use in licensed nuclear power plants.
In general, tobacco companies have continued to focus on questioning the methodology of studies showing that passive smoking is harmful.
Some -LRB- such as British American Tobacco and Philip Morris -RRB- acknowledge the medical consensus that passive smoking carries health risks, while others continue to assert that the evidence is inconclusive.
Several tobacco companies advocate the creation of smoke-free areas within public buildings as an alternative to outright smoking bans.The most current positions of major tobacco companies on the issue of passive smoking can be found on their websites.
Some uninformed designers have erroneously tried to bring daylight into a room with skylights.
Families will follow the Haggadah 's lead by asking their own questions at various points in the Haggadah and offering prizes such as nuts and candies for correct answers.
In some families, the leader of the Seder hides the ` afikoman' and the children must find it, whereupon they receive a prize or reward.
In other homes, the children hide the ` afikoman' and the parent must look for it ; when he gives up, the children demand a prize -LRB- often money -RRB- for revealing its location.
This recommendation makes sense for systems using stronger password hashing mechanisms such as md5-crypt and the Blowfish-based bcrypt, but is inappropriate for many Microsoft Windows systems because they store a legacy LAN Manager hash which splits the password into two seven character halves.
In many West Slavic and East Slavic languages, the early Slavic past tenses have largely merged into a single past tense.
Some specialty pasta varieties can be made from grains low in gluten for gluten-intolerant people, or from whole wheat flour.
Generally, they are considered cheap enough to be disposable, however, so long as the glass point is not chipped, the Pasteur pipette may be washed and reused indefinitely.
The resulting decrease in alcohol percentage causes some of the constituents to become insoluble, which changes the liqueur 's appearance from dark transparent yellow to milky soft yellow, a phenomenon also present with absinthe and known as the ouzo effect.
The drink is consumed cold and is considered a refreshment for hot days.
However, many pastis drinkers refuse to add ice, preferring to drink the beverage with cool spring water.
The origins of the pasty are largely unknown, although it is generally accepted that the modern form of the pasty originated from Cornwall.
Tradition claims that the pasty was originally made as lunch -LRB- ` croust' or ` crib' in the Cornish language -RRB- for Cornish tin miners who were unable to return to the surface to eat.
The catalyst for the defections was reported to be Duncan 's allegedly heavy-handed and secretive leadership style.. cbc.ca, November 4, 2002.
One year later, he went to Morocco, where he met many musicians.
Pat Jabbar also discovered Turkish rappers Makale from Basel and produced some of their music.
He and some others who had come from the USI via the trade union movement were seen as wanting to bring the party more to the right.
In 1992 Rabbitte played a prominent role with Proinsias De Rossa in an attempt to jettison some of its more hard left positions.
Lamb is considered the traditional Patagonian meat, grilled for several hours over an open fire.
Some guide books have reported that game, especially guanaco and introduced deer and boar, are popular in restaurant cuisine.
It is said that Bharias have been living here for more than 500 years.
This region is famous for being the place of origin of most Brazilian oral / folk traditions as well as for presenting one of the biggest social gaps in the country, with many disadvantaged communities living in extreme poverty in the backlands -LRB- sertao -RRB-.
On his way back to his hometown he met the famous popular poet Juvenal Galeno.
In many countries, certain subject areas are excluded from patents, such as business methods and mental acts.
The exclusive right granted to a patentee in most countries is the right to prevent others from making, using, selling, or distributing the patented invention without permission., World Intellectual Property Organization, Retrieved on 22 February 2009.
In some jurisdictions only authorized practitioners can act before the patent office, although applicants -LRB- i.e. inventors -RRB- can generally represent themselves.
Thus, despite opposition from some quarters within the Government of West Bengal and the Government of India because of its depiction of poverty, ` Pather Panchali' was sent to the 1956 Cannes Film Festival with the personal approval of the Prime Minister.
Although some were initially unenthusiastic at the prospect of yet another Indian melodrama, they found `` the magic horse of poetry '' slowly invading the screen.
The entities are often concepts of some sort, but they can be anything with a pattern of relationships.
These skills are complementary in many hospital-based private practice settings, since the day-to-day work of many clinical laboratories only requires the intermittent attention of a physician.
Some of these sub-specialities permit additional board certification, while others do not. of the American Board of Pathology.
These large master cylinders were said to capture higher audio fidelity than was available on any mass marketed recordings of the time.
Patpong 1 is the main street with many bars of various kinds.
Patpong 2 also has many similar bars.
Next to these lies Soi Jaruwan, sometimes referred to as Patpong 3 but best known as Silom Soi 4.
In the first postwar years the situation does not improve perceptibly, only some scattered events testify the arrival of Carnival.
Still in the 1950s, the carnival becomes the object of attacks, as fanatic Christian and other misinformed moralistic organisations roll up to Patras from other regions of Greece during the carnival in order to denounce orgies, corruptness, `` Sodom and Gomorrah '', but they are prevented from creating trouble by the police.
It began in 1958, the very year of German 's election, with an allegedly willing acceptance of the autonomy of Ohrid Archbishopric proclaimed by the archbishop Dositej.
Because most of information about Heraclius comes from his rival William and the 13th-century ` Old French Continuation' of his chronicle, sometimes attributed to Ernoul, Heraclius is often seen as a particularly corrupt and worldly choice for patriarch.
He was accused of getting the appointment through being Agnes 's lover, which may reflect nothing more than the ill-will of his defeated opponent 's party.
The claim in the ` Old French Continuation' that he excommunicated William in 1183, forcing him to leave the kingdom to seek the Pope 's help in Rome, and arranged for him to be poisoned there, is demonstrably false.
Copsey, ` Contemporary British Fascism : The British National Party and the Quest for Legitimacy', Basingstoke : Palgrave Macmillan, 2004, p. 45 For their part, Griffin and Holland claimed that Harrington 's refusal to condemn the IRA had been the cause of many problems.'.
Most people would consider Pat McCrory to be right of center.
Although many conservatives consider McCrory more of a centrist, McCrory has vetoed more proposals by the Democratic majority in the City council than any Mayor in Charlotte history.
Many liberal interest groups do not think McCrory gives enough attention to public arts and would like city money to be spent on more public art projects which McCrory has not always supported.
Some local Republicans refer to Pat McCrory as a Republican In Name Only or RINO and consider his positions on public policy `` to be in line with liberal interests in downtown Charlotte. ''.
Moore has been criticized by environmentalists for many of his views.
Some see him as having `` abruptly turned his back on the environmental movement '' and `` being a mouthpiece for some of the very interests Greenpeace was founded to counter ''.
His critics point out Moore 's business relations with what they see as `` polluters and clear-cutters '' through his consultancy.
Moore has earned his living since the early 1990s primarily by consulting for, and publicly speaking to a wide variety of corporations and industry lobby groups.
This work is usually published under a number of pseudonyms.
` Patrick George Walden' -LRB- born October 5 1978 -RRB- is best known as the former guitarist for Babyshambles.
Walden also worked as a live guitarist and as a session musician, playing bass and guitar for numerous recording artists.
Critics have charged that Patriot Bible University is a diploma mill as it has unreasonably low graduation requirements, lack of sufficient faculty or educational standards, and a suspicious tuition scheme, among other issues.
Unlike some institutions you can not simply mail a check and receive a diploma, some correspondence work is required.
Within a week their membership included many riders from associations like the VFW, American Legion, Rolling Thunder, ABATE, Combat Vets Motorcycle Association, Intruder Alert, Leathernecks Motorcycle Club, and almost five hundred individual riders.
Patriots from all over America and several foreign countries responded.
Seven spans are considered the main spans and consist of steel trusses and concrete decks.
The other three spans are considered approach spans, which are supported by plate girders.
The other choice would be to close the position, protecting his capital, and -LRB- perhaps inappropriately -RRB- fall under the rule, as this would now be a 4th day trade within the period.
If the trader was aware of this well-known rule however, he would not open the 4th position unless he intended to hold it overnight.
The authenticity of that quote has never been verified, and the special effects technicians who allegedly said it have never come forward.
It was reported at this time that Clapton fell in love with Boyd.
Although Boyd drank and admits to past drug use, unlike Clapton she never became an alcoholic or a drug addict.Wonderful Tonight, Epilogue ; See also, ` Daily Telegraph', 12 August 1999 ; `` Like many others in her circle, Boyd sampled the booze, dope and cocaine but, unlike Clapton, she knew when to stop. ''.
The type of meat used in spice burgers is not well known but generally there will be some pork content which imparts a pork sausage-like salty flavour ; ` spice' refers to the extra seasoning -LRB- salt and pepper -RRB- rather than to any particular exotic spices or heat from chilli.
Spice burgers and batter burgers are considered an acquired taste.
It is more than a reasonable guess that the two Johnsons, President and Governor, kept each other informed, though neither could have admitted that to his public..
Bako 's rookie season was arguably his most successful ; he posted a .272 batting average, hit 3 home runs, batted in 30 runs, and collected 106 total bases.
His versions of ballads like `` Arthur McBride '' and `` The Lakes of Pontchartrain '' were considered as definitive and are still popular at concerts today.
It was in the early 1950s that Paul Bénichou undertook his most ambitious and important scholarly project.
This research culminated in a series of major works that purport to solve this problem.
Although slavery continued, some believed the emigration of Blacks to colonies outside the United States was the easiest and most realistic solution to the race problem in America.
During his tenure as director -LRB- 1941-1965 -RRB-, he was responsible for luring some of the finest writers of the day to Iowa City.
Robert Lowell, John Berryman, Kurt Vonnegut and many other prominent novelists and poets served as faculty under Engle.
The recognition that excluded volume was an important factor in analyzing long-chain molecules in solutions provided an important conceptual breakthrough, and led to the explanation of several puzzling experimental results of the day.
In these memoirs, Halmos claims to have invented the `` iff '' notation for the words `` if and only if '' and to have been the first to use the `` tombstone '' notation to signify the end of a proof, and this is generally agreed to be the case.
It is most frequently called the ` tombstone', but at least one generous author referred to it as the ` halmos'.
Some critics contend that his graceful lyrics reflect the influence of poet John Keats.
Hayne 's sonnets are considered his best work.
During his infancy, Paul was taken from the care of his mother by the Empress Elizabeth, whose ill-judged fondness allegedly injured his health.
As a boy, he was reported to be intelligent and good-looking.
It has been asserted that his mother hated him, and was only restrained from putting him to death while he was still a boy by the fear of what the consequences of another palace crime might be to herself.
However, others suggest that the Empress, who was usually very fond of children, treated Paul with kindness.
Among the paid petitioners used were some that had come to Oklahoma from other states to work on the drive.
It also pointed out that at the time of the shooting of the plane, the French military was in control of Kigali Airport ; although that point, and the possible attempt to imply that the French shot down the plane, is irrelevant as the plane was shot down on approach to the airport and not from the zone controlled by French forces.
It 's a very political judgement and I do n't believe that it 's borne out by the evidence.
Certainly the witnesses who spoke to Bruguiere allege that those were statements made by President Kagame himself.
Whether he did or not obviously is a matter in dispute, in hot dispute, but the political judgement it seems to me is another matter. ''.
Enron Follies '', Rich Karlgaard, Forbes magazine, 02-13-2002. '' '', Eric Boehlert, Salon, 01-31-2002Howard Kurtz,, 01-30-2002. some of his critics claimed that `` The Ascent of E-man, '' an article Krugman wrote for Fortune MagazinePaul Krugman, '', ` Fortune magazine', May 1999. about the rise of the market as illustrated by Enron 's energy trading, was biased by Krugman 's earlier consulting work for them.
Lo Duca would forge another connection with Piazza in being traded away -LRB- to the Marlins, and eventually to the Mets -RRB- in two of the Dodgers' most unpopular trades in recent memory.
` Paul Löwinger' -LRB- \ n November 10, 1904 in Tulln, Lower Austria ; † December 17, 1988 in Vienna -RRB- was an Austrian actor, theatre manager and writer.Still a child he performed on his parents' stage, the Löwinger Bühne. 1938 they were probably the first theatre ensemble which performed in front of television cameras.
Löwinger wrote numerous comedies and well known plays.
The theory, using precedents established in biological theory, explains many aspects of human social and sexual behavior.
Moon 's works have come in for criticism from some reviewers.
In many of his books, he has stated that he writes history from the perspective of those involved at the time, and not with the historian 's benefit of hindsight.
The result is that some of his conclusions differ from what later analyses of events reveal.
Some describe it as engaging, while others denounce it as not conforming to the typical style used in many New Zealand histories.
I do remember putting some effort -LRB- recall this was only the second program I 'd written -RRB- into using the joystick in some new ways to get greater flexibility into the character.
Oakenfold is said to be a big fan of Chelsea F.C..
` Paul Phillips' -LRB- 1959-2007 -RRB- was one of Ireland 's most popular and respected bodhrán players and teachers, immersed in the drum as an art form and in particular in the development and promotion of the style of play known as top-end.
With Popenoe as his scientific workhorse, Gosney intended to study the sterilization work being done in California and use it to advocate sterilization in other parts of the country and in the world at large.
This would culminate in a number of works, most prominently their joint-authored ` Sterilization for Human Betterment : A Summary of Results of 6,000 Operations in California, 1909-1929' in 1929.
This work would become a popular text for the advocacy of sterilization, as it purported to be an objective study of the operations in the state and concluded, not surprisingly, that rigorous programs for the sterilization of the `` unfit '' were beneficial to all involved, including the sterilized patients.
When Paul decided to take on some freelance work, he employed Trevor as a builder 's aid, although he was more of a liability than a labourer and made many disastrous mistakes.
The operation will demand many apparent brutal and heartless decisions.
Because Jones believed that these great artists were being overlooked, he decided that he would create a collection of works by a variety of African American artists.
At almost two thousand works, it is one of the world 's largest and most comprehensive collections of works by African American artists of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries.
Reynaud held several cabinet posts in the early 1930s, but he clashed with members of his party after 1932 over French foreign and defense policy and was not given another cabinet position until 1938.
Reynaud was a supporter of Charles de Gaulle 's theories of mechanized warfare in contrast to the static defense doctrines that were in vogue among many of his countrymen, symbolized by the Maginot Line, and was an outspoken opponent of appeasement in the run-up to the Second World War.
Over the last eight years, TransFair has sought to reframe the industry 's conventional wisdom about the most effective response to poverty in the coffee communities, building innovative partnerships for sustainable solutions.
The piece most famous in his own day, his ` Virgile travesti' -LRB- 1648-1653 -RRB-, is now thought a somewhat ignoble waste of singular powers for burlesque.
Schultze-Naumburg was born in Almrich -LRB- now part of Naumburg -RRB- in Prussian Saxony, and by 1900 was a well-known painter and architect, first emerging as a more-conservative member of the group of artists who established the Jugendstil and the Arts and Crafts workshops in Munich.
His series of books the ` Kulturarbeiten' -LRB- `` Works of Culture '' -RRB-, nine volumes published 1900-1917, were extremely popular and established him as a major tastemaker for the German middle class.
A well-known example of his architecture from this time is the Cecilienhof Palace in Potsdam, built for crown prince Wilhelm, 1914-1917.
-LRB- Since corporate and union money was already banished in the bill, Wellstone was presumably worried mainly about money from rich individuals. -RRB-.
To some of us outside Parliament it appears to be neither Conservative nor an opposition ... we must oppose socialism, not condone it. ''.
It would hardly be possible to arouse American sociologists to very lively controversy over what remains in dispute.
The Pauli exclusion principle is one of the most important principles in physics, mainly because the three types of particles from which ordinary matter is made -- electrons, protons, and neutrons -- are all subject to it ; consequently, all material particles exhibit space-occupying behavior.
The Pauli exclusion principle underpins many of the characteristic properties of matter, from the large-scale stability of matter, to the existence of the periodic table of the elements.
After Christopher 's death, Patsy most likely took over the crew, since he had seniority.
The feud appears to end in 1989 when the character Den is shot and presumed dead, but it is ignited once again in 2003 when Den is re-introduced, 14 years after he supposedly died. 2005 saw Den killed off for the final time, and although Pauline is not directly responsible for killing him, the item used to bludgeon him to death turns out to be her dog-shaped iron doorstop, which has been described as `` a nice touch of pathos ''.
He is best known for his works for the band Titas, which he is a member since its beginning, in 1981.
Singing and playing the harmonica and the sax are some of his most notable contributions for the band.
His most notable work is Anísio, at the movie O Invasor.
Formed in 1997 by Paulo Nascimento and Phil Quenum, Access 58 soon established itself as one of the most powerful forces in techno in Europe.
Access 58 were the first -LRB- and probably the only -RRB- artists to perform live on the Colin Dale 's legendary `` Abstract Dance '' weekly radio program on Kiss FM in London, England.
Beginning to garner much attention in Vancouver, his first practice with the club on November 3, 1991, was attended by approximately 2,000 fans, a significantly large number as team practices are not typically well-attended.
They recommended that : : \ n `` ill treatment of persons deprived of liberty and verbal abuse is unacceptable and will be severely sanctioned '' : \ n `` no more force than is necessary should be used when affecting an apprehension and that, once apprehended persons have been brought under control, there can be no justification for striking them `` Whilst noting some improvements to the facility since the CPT visit of 2002, the 205 delegation noted that such developments were cancelled out by the fact that 393 detainees were occupying a space earmarked for 250.
Some detainees merely had a mattress on the floor whilst others were sleeping two to a bed.
In the late 1980s and '90s Pawlikowski was best known for his documentaries, whose unique blend of lyricism and irony won him many fans and awards around the world.
Pawlikowski 's most original and formally successful film was ` Serbian Epics' -LRB- 1992 -RRB- which, made at the height of the Bosnian war, included close up footage of Bosnian Serb politician Radovan Karadžić and General Ratko Mladić, the latter still wanted by the international court of justice, and the famous siege of Sarajevo.
` Malmo Nursery' was a chain of garden stores, which operated the garden centers at Ernst stores and several free standing stores.
Sold to their employees and later closed in 1995 due after increasing competition from other major retailers.
Some may even get to leave during the day to go to work.
Cascade Reservoir on the North Fork is one of the most heavily fished waters in the state.
Rescue archaeology undertaken on the line of the A29 autoroute revealed several Gallo-Roman villas.
One of the most important is that of Sainte-Marguerite-sur-Mer, on the coast to the west of Dieppe.
Through the years, other lists have been elicited from poll respondents, including local bands -LRB- early 80s -RRB-, EP 's -LRB- '80s -RRB-, videos -LRB- much of the 80s -RRB-, reissues -LRB- late 80s-early 90s -RRB- and compilations -LRB- mid-90s -RRB-.
But, it is known that the Osage Indians were roaming on lands north of the Arkansas River.
It is known that the tribes of this area were more settled and were actually farmers in their way.
The town 's namesake wild peas are believed to be a product of this early farming, since it would have taken many years of preparation and cultivation to produce them.Who Lived in Our Area Before Our Ancestors Came ?,.
But under pressure from some members of Congress from the Western states, President Lyndon B. Johnson issued an order on May 15, 1965 to resume production of the Peace Dollar.
Although rumors persist that some examples still survive, owning them is illegal, making it unlikely that anyone who does own one will ever come forth publicly.Marotta, Michael E..
Critical theory is also widely used in peace and conflict studies. \ n Multilevel.
Wheelchair access is possible at several places on the former railway trails, and cycle hire centres offer vehicles adapted to wheelchair users.
Most caps have some form of cap device -LRB- or cap badge -RRB-.
The U.S. airline industry used to be a relatively large purchaser of peanuts for serving during flights -LRB- 6 million lb / 3 million kg annually -RRB- before the nuts were removed from flights by many airlines -LRB- largely due to allergy concerns, but also due to cost -RRB-.
` Peanuts' had several recurring characters that were actually absent from view.
Some, such as the Great Pumpkin or Manfred von Richthofen -LRB- the Red Baron -RRB-, may or may not have been figments of the cast 's imaginations.
After some early anomalies, adult figures never appeared in the strip.
In some instances these have been placed directly opposite older Pear Tree signage.
There is also a claim, first asserted in Toland 's ` Infamy', ONI knew about Japanese carrier movements.
Toland has made other conflicting and incorrect claims about the diary during lectures at the Holocaust denial organization the Institute for Historical Review.
Also in powder coating applications, where an optimal orientation of the pigment platelets is difficult in some cases, strong lustrous color effects are achievable.
A number of enterprises were established, using Japanese divers who were considered to be both hardworking and highly skilled.
In, 1861, when the larger ` Pinctada maxima' oyster, which produced high quality mother-of-pearl shell, was discovered by naturalist Pemberton Walcott in areas north of Nickol Bay near present day Karratha, the industry developed by Charles Broadhurst and others spread rapidly during the 1880s along the north west coast.
In many pre-industrial societies, peasants comprised the bulk of the population.
The third poll tax was not levied at a flat rate -LRB- as in 1377 -RRB- nor according to schedule -LRB- as in 1379 -RRB- ; instead it allowed some of the poor to pay a reduced rate, while others who were equally poor had to pay the full tax, prompting calls of injustice.
These included John of Gaunt -LRB- the acting regent -RRB-, Simon Sudbury -LRB- Lord Chancellor and Archbishop of Canterbury, who was the figurehead to what many then saw as a corrupt Church -RRB- and Sir Robert Hales -LRB- the Lord Treasurer, responsible for the poll tax -RRB-.
Access to the village by car can only be gained by using roads which are at some point single track, which gives visitor the feel that it is more remote than it actually is.
The Ugly Ducklings are one of several Canadian bands whose songs are sprinkled on the albums in the Pebbles series.
Here most of them depend on cultivation. the big asset of the village are hard working farmers and daily labors produce good quality of rice and chillies.
From last one decade many were become professionally educated and been well settled in IT and other related sectors.
On modern electronic synthesizers such as the Yamaha Electone, the pedals are not limited to traditional bass notes but may instead produce many different types of sounds, including high-register tones.
The town manages to hold a few historical places of interest.
These include courtyards of kings and a few palaces that are fondly called ` Devidi'.
A few sprawling grounds are available for sport officianados, and it is a common sight to see a crowd of people trying to showcase their cricketing spirit in multiple places within the town.
There are a few cinemas, theatres and restaurants.
The town manages to hold a few historical places of interest.
These include courtyards of kings and a few palaces that are fondly called ` Devidi'.
A few sprawling grounds are available for sport officianados, and it is a common sight to see a crowd of people trying to showcase their cricketing spirit in multiple places within the town.
There are a few cinemas, theatres and restaurants.
In some areas, such as ` Boeotia', the man and boy were formally joined together and lived as a couple.
By contrast, the Spartans were said to have practised chaste pederasty.Xenophon, ` Constitution of the Lacedaemonians', 2.12-14.
There are many varieties of signal and marking layouts around the world and even within single countries.
In the United States, there are many inconsistencies, although the variations are usually minor.
There are several distinct types in the United Kingdom, each with their own name.
This degree qualifies that medical practitioner to become licensed or registered under the laws of that particular country, and sometimes of several countries, subject to requirements for `` internship '' or `` conditional registration ''.
Research suggests that incest offenders recidivate at approximately half the rate of extrafamilial child molesters, and one study estimated that by the time of entry to treatment, nonincestuous pedophiles who molest boys had committed an average of 282 offenses against 150 victims.
Born in Paredes de Nava, Spain, he went to Italy in 1480 and worked in Federigo da Montefeltro 's court in Urbino, where he could see some works by Melozzo da Forli.
He was the father of an important sculptor, Alonso Berruguete, considered the most important sculptor in Renaissance Spain.
` Pedro Chamijo' -LRB- 1602, Granada, Spain-January 3, 1667, Lima, Peru -RRB-, more commonly known as ` Pedro Bohórquez' or ` Inca Hualpa', was a Spanish adventurer in the Viceroyalty of Peru.
He was probably born in Spain, but some sources say he was born in Quito.
His almost legendary story is an example of the picaresque, with a tragic ending.
The affair assumed threatening proportions, and some on each side wished to give battle.
However, battle was postponed by various means until, through the efforts of certain religious, the Japanese were quieted.
This perfectionism was not just limited to his own work : many of his plays rework existing plays or scenes by other dramatists, improving their depth, complexity, and unity.
Although his fame dwindled during the 18th century, he was rediscovered by Goethe, who translated his works into German, and from that point on, he has been widely considered as one of the finest playwrights of the western baroque world.
The Emperor had an unhappy and solitary childhood.Carvalho -LRB- 2007 -RRB-, p. 30 He was considered precocious, docile and obedient, Besouchet, p. 50 but was always crying and nothing seemed to please him.
In fact, one of its streets refers to the same -LRB- street Agreement -RRB-, and is an event related in some academic books on the topic.
Davilita became very popular in the New York Latin scene and was soon working with many Latin artists.
Davilita accepted and became the lead singer in many of Flores' boleros.
He traveled to many countries with the sexteto.In 1954, Davilita had returned to Puerto Rico where he joined Felipe `` La Voz '' Rodriguez and together formed a duo.
Even though Davilita 's voice was n't as sharp as when he was young, they were able to score many `` hits ''.
Also another incident happened in Luneta Grandstand, Manila, whena group of criminals captured people.
As a result, both bishops were summoned to Rome, where subsequently several distinctions were accorded to Davila, who during the remainder of his life enjoyed high honors.
Observing the pope 's resolve to imprison Aranda, Garcilaso pointed out the suspicion that was likely to arise in the popular mind from the anomalous incarceration of Aranda while the Marrano delegates, indubitable heretics, were granted favor and freedom.
The legacy of this assimilation led to a number of issues in the 20th Century.
Foner, Phillip S. ` Paul Robeson Speaks' In The Forties : Paris Peace Conference, pg .197 In the early stages of the Cold War and Red scare, and its accompanying wide anti-Communist sentiments, such a comment was seen by many as very anti-American.
19th century Chinese peep shows were known by many names including ` la yang p ` ien' -LRB- `` pulling foreign picture cards '' -RRB-.
The parasite featured in the novel is portrayed as being the source of many myths and legends.
The parasite causes dementia and cannibalism, which were suggested as causing legends of most notably vampires, but also werewolves and zombies, among others.
Now found in many high schools and colleges across the United States, the Peer Program focuses on team building in creating trust and friendship throughout the school community.
Steven Schultz, a peer leader at South Brunswick High School, is credited with introducing many new reforms of peer leadership and development at the 2006-2007 New Jersey Peer Retreat.
In general, cross-age mentoring programs can involve a tutoring or teaching component, personal mentorship and guidance, or both, and maintains many of the advantages inherent in other forms of peer mentorship.
The specific benefits of cross-age mentoring/tutoring are numerous, and are briefly described here in three main categories : increased academic achievement, improved interpersonal skills, and personal developmentGaustad, Joan.
For example, Albert Einstein 's revolutionary `` Annus Mirabilis '' papers in the 1905 issue of ` Annalen der Physik' were not peer-reviewed by anyone other than the journal 's editor in chief, Max Planck -LRB- the father of quantum theory -RRB-, and its co-editor, Wilhelm Wien.
Although clearly peers -LRB- both won Nobel prizes in physics -RRB-, a formal panel of reviewers was not sought, as is done for many scientific journals today.
A few cases of plagiarism by historians have been widely publicized.
Sometimes reviewers detect cases of likely plagiarism and bring them to the attention of the editor.
Reviewers generally lack access to raw data, but do see the full text of the manuscript, and are typically familiar with recent publications in the area.
His most-seen technique is the which initially allows him to send a large number of punches in a second.
His most powerful technique is, where he grabs hold of his opponent from the back, soars miles into the air, then suicide-dives head-first into the ground.
The announcement of their engagement in 1953 produced a firestorm of comment in Britain and around the world ; and when Peggy Cripps and Joe Appiah were married in June 1953, the occasion was front-page news in Britain, in Ghana, and many other countries and the event was one of the social events of the year.
A Jamaican newspaper commented that there were `` top-hatted and frock-coated British aristocrats ... ex-Cabinet Ministers ... as well as several Tory and Socialist members of Parliament. ''.
The real attraction, however, was the kente cloth worn not only by the bridegroom but by many of his friends.
Released as a single the song, `` Bill '', initially just to blues radio stations, it also began getting airplay on Urban contemporary radio and soon gained most-requested status at several larger stations.
Completed in 2007, this Heritage trail features the many aspects of the small neighbourhood just a short distance away from the school.
The is a consolidation of the work put in by the various groups, and the is a historical archive of the information found along the way.
He also claimed that many works of Celestius did not represent his own views.
In that respect it may be significant that some lineages of cetaceans, like the primitive dolphins of the Kentriodontidae or the shark-toothed whales -LRB- Squalodontoidea -RRB-, flourished contemporary with the Pelagornithidae and became extinct at about the same time.
Also, the modern diversity of pinniped and cetacean genera evolved largely around the Mio-Pliocene boundary, suggesting that many ecological niches emerged or became vacant.
In that respect, it is conspicuous that the older pseudotooth birds are typically found in the same deposits as plotopterids and penguins, while younger forms were sympatric with auks, albatrosses, penguins and Procellariidae - which, however, underwent an adaptive radiation of considerable extent coincident -LRB- and probably caused by -RRB- with the final demise of the Paleogene-type trophic web.
Literary Magazine - Pelham High School has an award-winning literary magazine that is one of the best in the state.
Before or especially after being fed, they may seem to have a seizure that ends in falling unconscious ; the reason is not clearly known.
This plant does not have the immediately recognizable sharply pointed leaflets on its fronds that many other ferns have.
` King Pellinore' is the king of Listenoise or of `` the Isles '' -LRB- possibly Anglesey, or perhaps the medieval kingdom of the same name -RRB-, according to the Arthurian legend.
Son of King Pellam and brother of Kings Pelles and Alain, he is most famous for his endless hunt of the Questing Beast, which he is tracking when King Arthur first meets him.
Pellinore beats King Arthur after three jousts and breaks the sword Arthur had withdrawn from the stone -LRB- in some versions this is Excalibur, though he gets another sword of that name from the Lady of the Lake soon after. -RRB-.
Quoted in ` The Cambridge Opera Handbook' p. 31 There were many false starts before ` Pelléas et Mélisande'.
At this point, Debussy too was a devotee of Wagner 's music, but - eager to please his father - he was probably more swayed by Mendes' promise of a performance at the Paris Opéra and the money and reputation this would bring.
The shield was carried by many troops of period including the light Ancient Greek infantry known as Peltasts.
Some Persia and other Eastern troops used shields similar to the pelte such as Later Achaemenid takabara.
Most versions of the story name Mary as the ghost who supposedly haunts the building.
Some versions say the ghost is, still watching over her girls, while others say the ghost is actually the restless spirit of a former student murdered by a crazed janitor during a holiday break in some unspecified school year.
The story is well known around EIU 's campus, and is included in several.
The building is commonly known as `` The GAB '', after being named after the diplomat Sir Geoffrey Arthur -- a former master of the college -LRB- 1975-1985 -RRB-.
Among them, Pemmasani clan which earned laurels for their bravery and defense of Vijayanagar Empire in the coming four centuries was the most illustrious.
In the American Mercury Signature commercial, a pen is shown performing a sonic rise to a thumbaround. \ n House and Chase are occasionally seen spinning pens in the television show House, usually doing ThumbArounds, Half Taps or Fingerpasses. \ n Pen spinning is also occasionally seen in the television show NUMB3RS \ n Although technically not pen spinning, drummers will sometimes perform charges with their drumsticks, such as Dave Mackintosh of Dragonforce or Andrew Forsman of The Fall of Troy -LRB- as showcased in the video for the song `` F.C.P.R.R.E.M.I.X. '' -RRB-. \ n It is understood that a Japanese pen spinner named Hideaki Kondoh was one of the first pen spinners to start a pen spinning website.
During the war, some escaped Soviet POWs were sent to penal units under Order 227 retroactively.
Those liberated at the end of the war were often executed.Hatch 1988, p. 115 : many Soviet POWs liberated at the end of the war were summarily executed.Conquest 1978, pp. 228-229 : Soviet POWs not executed at war 's end often went to a gulag such as the Kolyma arctic death camp.
Still others were released from custody, but stripped of their rank or awards.
Strategy is considered to be very important during penalty shots and overtime shootouts for both the shooter and the goalie.
It is widely reported that the wire thickness varied also, but in fact all used the same diameter of wire.
There were also a number of special charges issued with a time pencil already incorporated e.g. some types of limpet mines.
The latter will reduce the likelihood of the fish jumping, which is a common occurrence for some of the species, especially ` N. espei' and ` N. unifasciatus'.
I have lately visited Pendleton, now one of the best republican towns in the State, and looked again upon the spot where I was beaten down, and have again taken by the hand some of the witnesses of that scene, amongst whom was the kind, good lady -- Mrs. Hardy -- who, so like the good Samaritan of old, bound up my wounds, and cared for me so kindly ''.
As it was built for industrial purposes, sidings branched off both the Up and Down tracks at many locations.
Mistakenly, some artists and writers have penguins based at the North Pole.
He wrote that after installing the found harmonium `` in a friend 's house in one of the most beautiful parts at the edge of the city '', he `` frequently visited this instrument during the next few months, and I remember the time fondly as one during which I was under a form of enchantment with the place and the time ''. ''.
Music for a Found Harmonium '' was used over the end-credits of the 1988 John Hughes movie `` She 's Having a Baby '' where many film actors and celebrities of the time invent their favourite name for an imagined child, although it was not placed on the soundtrack accompanying the movie.
Its rhythm, tempo and simple structure made it very suitable for adaptation into a reel, and it was subsequently recorded by many Irish traditional musicians, including Patrick Street, De Dannan, Kevin Burke and Sharon Shannon.
In some cases the testicles can be unexpectedly pulled into the cylinder and cause severe pain and injury.
Attempts at using vacuum cleaner units for this purpose have resulted in severe injury as the machine produces far too much suction.However, scientists Graham Rutherford and Anne Henke have also undertaken significant research in this area, being funded by some of the major names in sexual pleasure toys, such as Ann Summers.
Although not intended as a football excursion many from the area took advantage to see the team, then considered the best in the country, play.
One person was killed and many injured.Dow vol. 2, p. 205 Those with minor injuries were treated at Penistone station, those with more severe injuries were taken to the Wentworth Arms Hotel, opposite the bottom of the station approach road, where the billiard room was turned into an operating theatre.
However, because even the earliest penitentials inquired into the sinner 's state of mind and social condition, it can not be claimed that the priest took no account of the sinner 's poverty.
Carlton College opened in 1872 and this school occupied several premises in the Parkville area.
The school occupied several sites in the Moonee Ponds area.
The first links between Essendon Grammar School and Penleigh Ladies' College were established in 1952 when Intermediate and Leaving students participated in some common classes.
This, combined with Pennsylvania 's rank of 6th in the country in population, has made it one of the most important swing states.
Republicans are generally dominant in the areas of Altoona, York, Lancaster, Williamsport, Harrisburg, and the vast rural areas that make up the balance of the Commonwealth.
Traditionally, Republicans have also fared well in the densely populated and wealthy suburbs of Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, but in the 1990s and 2000s many of these suburbs began to associate more with the Democratic Party.
From Philadelphia, the stations on what is now referred to as the R5 train line are : Overbrook, The community of Overbrook is a neighborhood within the city limits of Philadelphia and so is generally not regarded as being part of the Main Line.
The other rail line communities are outside the traditional Main Line and sometimes considered the Upper Main Line : Rosemont, Villanova, Radnor, St. Davids, Wayne, Strafford, Devon, Berwyn, Daylesford, and Paoli.
Some communities, most notably Gladwyne, Bala Cynwyd, and Penn Valley, are included in what is commonly accepted as the Main Line, as they are typical Main Line communities, are adjacent to Main Line towns.
Neither, however, is located on the rail line for which the area is named and therefore they may be considered culturally rather than geographically on the Main Line.
Route 652 begins a northeastern progression, where it passes to the south of several ponds and several local residences.
There are some short patches of the woodlands in the area.
At an intersection with Dunn Road and Buckingham Road, Route 652 passes some local residences, and eventually becomes less developed with fields surrounding the highway in Berlin Township.
There, Route 652 becomes highly developed, passing several residences on both the northern and southern sides of the highway.
The PSP is the only law enforcement agency in Pennsylvania that is authorized to use radar for speed enforcement, in accordance with Title 75 -LRB- commonly referred to as the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code -RRB- of the Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes, Annotated, Section 3368 -LRB- c2 -RRB-. \ n Stephen King 's novel ` From a Buick 8' features Troop D in a fictional town named Statler. \ n The PSP was patterned after a military organization and PSP troopers have sometimes been referred to as `` Soldiers of the Law. ''.
This is done for numerous safety and liability reasons.
Pennyroyal tea is the use of an infusion made from the herb, the infusion is widely reputed as safe to ingest in restricted quantities.
The most popular current use of the tea is to settle the stomach.
Other reported medicinal uses through history include fainting, flatulence, gall ailments, gout, hepatitis -LRB- presumably Hepatitis A -RRB-, a lung cleanser, a gum strengthener and, when ground with vinegar, a tumor remedy, although there is little to no medical evidence on any of these treatments.
It last use was probably in 1804 in the war against Napoleon.
It is almost certain that the Beacon Hill gave Penrith its name - in Celtic - of `` red hill ''.
In this final period, elections in Penryn became notoriously corrupt, although as Namier suggests the notoriety may have arisen chiefly from the fact the bribery now involved private citizens on both sides instead of the government being complicit in it.
Pensacola 's music scene is considered very active.
Perhaps most consistently, however, the city has been home to a small, but fairly active Punk, Folk and Indie scene with bands such as This Bike is a Pipe Bomb, Frank Booth, 60 Cycles of Sound, Deadly Fists of Kung Fu, among others.
This may range from choosing one of a small number of pre-determined mutual funds to selecting individual stocks or other securities.
Most self-directed retirement plans are characterized by certain tax advantages, and some provide for a portion of the employee 's contributions to be matched by the employer.
This situation is unsustainable so a number of strategies have been employed to counter this problem.
Historically, they were initially compared to various groups of parasitic worms.
Some authors interpreted tongue worms as essentially intermediate between annelids and arthropods, while others suggested that they deserved a phylum of their own.
Tongue worms grow by moulting, which suggests they belong to Ecdysozoa, while other work has identified the arthropod-like nature of their larvae 1959.
` Zoologischer Anzeiger', 163 : 169 -- 178.. In general, there are two current alternative interpretations : pentastomids are highly modified and parasitic crustaceans, probably related to fish lice, or they are an ancient group of stem-arthropods, close to the origins of Arthropoda.
The slendro anhemitonic scales of Java and Bali are said to approach, very roughly, an equally-tempered five note scale, but, in fact, their tunings vary dramatically from gamelan to gamelan.
Composer Lou Harrison has been one of the most recent proponents and developers of new pentatonic scales based on historical models.
Many Pentecostal groups are affiliated with the Pentecostal World Conference.
Strictly speaking, these alterations might not be described as pentimenti, because of the presumed lapse of time, and because another artist may have made the change.
It is formed by the caramelization of brown sugar, and thus its flavor is said to be reminiscent of caramel.
It is primarily a regional food, found in New England and some places in the Southern United States, though in the latter it goes by different names, usually '' ` Brown Sugar Fudge Candy' ''.
Expecting some unnameable evil, he finds his apprehension turning to joy when, upon opening the hatch, he sees Martians that indeed appear human, have mind-reading abilities and give the impression of being most amicable, especially the beautiful Teenya, who welcomes and reassures him.
Since its release in 1995, thousands of copies of the People CMM have been distributed, and it is used worldwide by organizations, small and large.
First published in book form in 2001, it is in print in several editions worldwide, and a second edition is forthcoming in 2009.
There are many other terms referring to fives over sixes such as `` five in the sky, six must die '' and also `` 5 poppin, 6 droppin. ''.
Certain terms are used by the People Nation alliance such as `` all is well '' when greeting each other.
Through this decree, Marcos seized emergency powers giving him full control of the Philippine military and the authority to suppress the freedom of speech, the freedom of the press, and many other civil liberties.
Among those arrested were Senate President Jovito Salonga, Senator Jose Diokno, and Senator Benigno Aquino Jr., the staunchest of his critics and the man who was groomed by the opposition to beat Marcos in the 1973 elections.
Eva later wrote her autobiography `` Eva 's Story '' which served as the inspiration for the development of a very popular multimedia stage presentation about the Holocaust called `` And Then They Came for Me ''.
PETA is also alleged to have donated $ 1.3 million to the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine -LRB- PCRM -RRB-, an organization that promotes the use of alternatives to animal testing, but which has been criticized for its links with the ALF, and in particular with Dr. Jerry Vlasak, a trauma surgeon who runs the North American Animal Liberation Press Office.Doward, Jamie., ` The Observer', July 25, 2004.
Vlasak caused controversy in 2004 when he told ` The Observer' : `` I do n't think you 'd have to kill too many -LSB- researchers -RSB-.
The tragedy is that many beneficial features in both the proposed charter and the electoral system would be discounted because of the manner of their implementation.'.
Physical fitness is widely emphasized in Chinese culture.
The NBA has a huge following among Chinese youths, with Yao Ming being the idol of many.
As some military analysts pointed out, PLA rarely use dense formation in their attacks, it seeks to inflict maximum damage with minimum casualty.
This will most likely only affect those teachers who have only taught in the district for less than two years.
In recent years, some schools have implemented a third and even fourth flag in routines.
This performing art is mainly prominent in Southern California high schools in various school districts.
Many flag routines involve choreography to music, dance/cheer elements -LRB- such as kicklines, pyramid mounts, etc. -RRB-, numerous combinations of twirls, flag tricks, and flag tosses -LRB- also known as exchanges -RRB-.
Though there have been no human clinical trials on the health benefits or risks of peppermint tea, some believe peppermint tea has healing effects, as a result of the menthol that it contains.
It is said to ease such problems as irritable bowel syndrome, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, headaches and baby colic ; for this last, breastfeeding mothers are sometimes recommended to drink the tea themselves, in the belief that its benefits will be passed on to the baby in the breastmilk.
It is also said to control mild asthma, manage stress and ward off the common cold.
In some countries, peppermint tea preparations list these proposed effects on their labels.
Some people claim that this results in a better taste than that of other diet colas -LRB- most of which are sweetened with aspartame alone -RRB-.
` Peptide mass fingerprinting' -LRB- PMF -RRB- -LRB- also known as ` protein fingerprinting' -RRB- is an analytical technique for protein identification that was developed in 1993 by several groups independently.
Fosshaug played in midfield for many clubs in Sweden, as well as for the Swedish national bandy team, for which he made a record 129 appearances between 1994 and 2005.
In 1992, he made the move to Västeras SK Bandy, the club which he became most commonly associated with.
If this extremely personal and individual space in our lives, which can be violent, sexual, religious or can take many other expressions remains closed, we will also remain slaves to our own socialization.
It has always been like that throughout history and will probably always stay that way. ''.
The importance of these services will vary widely between different economies, both between countries and among different groups within a country.
A typical example is the `` Clearwater Virgin '', where an image of Mary was reported to have appeared in the glass façade of a finance building in Clearwater, Florida, and attracted widespread media attention.
Images of the Virgin have also been reported on a rock in Ghana, an underpass in Chicago, a lump of firewood in Janesville, Wisconsin ; a chocolate factory in Fountain Valley, California ;.
In a hierarchy of interacting control systems conflicting outputs and perceptions are possible.
His energy was boundless, as in this year he wrote various tracts, gave over 40 lantern lecture averaged over six services a Sunday in his own parish, travelling about 30 miles on his bicycle, became bishop 's chaplain and secretary of the clerical society, and also managed to fit in some very successful cricket.
Had he accepted the suggestion that he should get a position in Sydney and play cricket, it is likely that he would have gained a place in the New South Wales eleven.
Though most performers prefer using metallic brushes, more now use plastic brushes because of their increased durability.
` Percy Jewett Burrell' -LRB- -- -RRB- was an author and director of historical and civic pageants, or dramas, and was known for his skills in oratory and elocution, -LRB- both of which are now more commonly referred to as public speaking -RRB-.
According to a printed program used at a service in his memory, `` His mastery of the spoken and written word led him to be a well known public speaker with an enviable reputation as a teacher of oratory, and later as an author and director of national distinction '' Program for Memorial Service, October 2, 2004. Burrell served as the sixth supreme -LRB- national -RRB- president of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Fraternity from 1907 to 1914, and along with Fraternity founder Ossian E. Mills has been credited by Fraternity historians with encouraging the early expansion of and formulating the basic philosophies and spiritual values espoused by the Fraternity.
One of the most interesting papers Lord Strangford ever wrote was the last chapter in his wife 's book on the ` Eastern Shores of the Adriatic'.
From that time forward everything that he wrote was watched with intense interest, and even when it was anonymous there was not the slightest difficulty in recognizing his style, for it was unlike any other.
Most species are extreme specialists -LRB- oligoleges -RRB- with respect to pollen and will only collect pollen from a few closely related species or genera of plants.
In 1863, almost immediately after the emancipation of serfs in Russia, the realization of Chernyshevsky 's work in practice came about through the protest of the fourteen students of the Royal Academy of Fine Arts. They manifested their protest during the annual Academy contest of works, declaring their secession from the Academy of Art. They drew the inspiration for this gesture of what could be considered as an apparent economic suicide from the ideas of `` bringing art to people. ''.
Seven years later most of the fourteen formed the kernel of the Society of Wandering Exhibitions, also known as The Wanderers or Itenerants -LRB- they thought to put their ideas into practice by organizing travelling exhibitions throughout the countryside of Russia -RRB-.
Lattisaw and Gill divide their time between trying to be heard over the din and trying to add some personal style to the mechanical lines Walden has ` programmed' for them ... Gill, 17, has a deep, muscular, elastic baritone, but shows off a bit too often on the gospel glissandos after the shortest phrases.
However, because of Walden 's knob-twirling tyranny, Lattisaw does n't have the freedom her voice deserves ... There are several pleasant surprises -- the gossamer ballad ` Falling in Love Again,' by folkies Eric Kaz and Tom Snow, and a version of Burt Bacharach 's ` Baby It 's You.'.
In microeconomics, a state of perfect information is assumed in some models of perfect competition.
Since the creation of perforation devices in the 1840s and 1850s, it has seen use in several areas.
Both these types would generally be considered to constitute performance poetry.
While Ginsberg actually sang his Blake songs with a harmonium, the original practitioner of this third and most popular type of performance poetry is Hedwig Gorski, who coined the term performance poetry to describe her work with music.
While some linguists and theorists might describe explicit performative utterances as rare occurrences, Eve Sedgwick argues that there are performative aspects to nearly all words, sentences, and phrases.
As Sedgwick observes, performative utterances can be revoked, either by the person who uttered them -LRB- `` I take back my promise '' -RRB-, or by some other party not immediately involved, like the state -LRB- for example, gay marriage vows -RRB-.
It often weaves together a bricolage of other writing styles ; since performative writing sees `` the form as being as important as the content ''.
In this it is claimed to be politically radical, because it thus ` defies' literary conventions and traditions.
Until the late 1960s, many have argued that Australian popular music was largely indistinguishable from imported music : British to begin with, then gradually more and more American in the post-war years.
The two best-selling Australian albums ever made -LRB- at that time -RRB- put Australian music on the map.
Adenomas are more common, making up 91 percent of perianal gland tumors in one study.
One interpretation of the anecdote treats the lion as a traditional symbol of greatness, but the story may also allude to the unusual size of Pericles' skull, which became a popular target of contemporary comedians.V.L.
Damage is incorporated in the pairwise force function by allowing bonds to break when their elongation exceeds some prescribed value.
This increased load makes it more likely that these other bonds will break.
Everything is perfectly fair, and it is possible to guess the solution of the puzzle fairly early in the book, though it is certainly not easy. ''.
Poirot and his faithful Captain Hastings are characters whom one is glad to meet again, and they are the most lively in the book, but even they are little more than pawns in this problem.
The term Dark Ages is no longer in common use among modern scholars because of the difficulty of using it neutrally, though some writers have attempted to retain it and divest it of its negative connotations.
However other terms, such as Gothic architecture, used to refer to a style typical of the High Middle Ages have largely lost the negative connotations they initially had, acquiring new meanings over time -LRB- see Gothic architecture and Goth subculture -RRB-.
Though his marriage made him happier in many ways, not the least of which was the opportunity he now had to father a child to replace him as president, his choice of partners was an unpopular decision both within and without his realm.
Unfortunately for President Avellar, a certain number of Alliance citizens felt the same way, afraid that their nation would follow the path taken by the Tikonov Free Republic several years earlier.
PCRE has developed an extensive and in some ways unique feature set.
While originally intended to be feature equivalent with Perl, over time a number of features have been first implemented in PCRE and only much later added to Perl.
In some cases PCRE has included in mainline releases features that originated with Perl 5.9.x and in some cases Perl 5.9.x has included features that were previously only available in PCRE.
Another system using a disorganized hydrated collagen I gel has been used to demonstrate that primary human corneal fibroblasts will eventually invade the gel and create a matrix consisting of collagen type I and perlecan, as well as several other sulfated matrix glycoproteins.
This mimics the in vivo corneal fibroblast 's developmental program and response to injury.One of the long-term goals of creating 3D cell culture systems is to engineer tissues that can be used as replacements for patients with many types of disease.
The larvae are generally considered to be clingers as can be seen by their wide stance for gripping substrates.
Lawful Permanent Residents generally do not have the right to vote, the right to be elected in federal and state elections, the ability to bring family members to the United States -LRB- permanent residents are allowed to sponsor certain family members, but this is often not practical due to long approval delays -RRB-, or eligibility for federal government jobs.
Certain conditions that may put a permanent resident in deportation proceedings do not apply to U.S. citizens.
They also have some sort of picture marking representing the type of hold or craft mark they are.
Some of them are known nationally.
These poor quality absinthes appealed to alcoholics of low socioeconomic status, and were commonly adulterated with a variety of toxic substances to make certain attributes -LRB- e.g. color -RRB- of these inferior brands more convincing.
Scientists conducted studies involving the injection of pure wormwood essence into small animals.
William Pringle, Grand Rapids, MI : Eerdmans, 1949 : `` Helvidius displayed excessive ignorance in concluding that Mary must have had many sons, because Christ 's ` brothers' are sometimes mentioned '' -LRB- vol. 2, p. 215 -RRB- ; `` -LSB- On Matt 1:25 :] The inference he -LSB- Helvidius -RSB- drew from it was, that Mary remained a virgin no longer than till her first birth, and that afterwards she had other children by her husband..
The move may be known as grinding, but similar basic grinding moves are well known around the globe within genres such as Dancehall, Rhythm and Blues, and even Hip hop.
This move is not only popular around the world, but it also has a great impact on the younger youth.
Later, Suhu Almarhum studied under several other martial arts masters who came to live with his uncle during times of difficulty in Asia during the 1930s and 40s.
According to one of Suhu 's most famous teachers, Gusti Gedeh Agung Jelanktik Baliwangsa the former King of Lombok, he had mastered the external forms by the age of twenty.
Suhu Almarhum is said to have created the current style of white crane pencak silat taught by PGB through a synthesis of four martial arts with his original clan style of kuntao.
Historically, this has been due to two causes : the German population were considered, whether factually or not, linked with German nationalist regimes such as those of the Nazis or Kaiser Wilhelm.
After World War II, many such Volksdeutsche were killed or driven from their homes in acts of vengeance, others in ethnic cleansing of territories prior to populating them with citizens of the annexing country.
Incidents of violence against Christians have occurred in many parts of India.
The Vishva Hindu Parishad -LRB- VHP -RRB-, the Bajrang Dal, and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh -LRB- RSS -RRB- are the most responsible organizations for violence against Christians.
These claims have been disputed by Christians a belief described as mythical and propaganda by Sangh Parivar ; the Parivar objects in any case to all conversions as a `` threat to national unity ''.
The `` Hindu Rights Action Force '', a coalition of several NGO 's, have protested these demolitions by lodging complaints with the Malaysian Prime Minister.
Many Hindu advocacy groups have protested what they allege is a systematic plan of temple cleansing in Malaysia.
However, several of the temples are centuries old.,.
During this prolonged disaster, some Christians became less certain of their religion and converted back to the old religion.
Pagans blamed the Christians for the disasters affecting the empire.Eunapius reflects some of the Pagan attitudes of this period in his writings.
Despite the pleas of many Pagans for tolerance, Honorius and Arcadius continued the work of their father by enacting even more anti-Pagan laws to stop any revival of Paganism.
In the year 395, Arcadius declared that the solemn days of the Pagans were no longer to be included in the number of holidays.Theodosian Code 2.8.22 In the same year, another law was passed by Arcadius that prohibited anyone from going to a Pagan sanctuary or temple or of celebrating any kind of Pagan sacrifice.Theodosian Code 16.10.13 This law seems to have been targeted at those Christians who were converting back to Paganism as it specifically mentions `` those who are trying to stray from the dogma of the Catholic faith. ''.
In the year 396, the privileges of Pagan priests and other clerics were officially revoked.Theodosian Code 16.10.14 In the same year, Arcadius ordered that Pagan temples standing in the country were to be destroyed without disorder or riot such that they could not be used for religious rites away from gaze of the authorities.Theodosian Code 16.10.16, 15.1.36 The large number of Pagans in the east also seems to have forced Arcadius into allowing the ancient festivals and public games to continue but without religious rites that formed an essential part of the old religion.Theodosian Code 15.6.1, 15.6.2.
h + ? Per : These two open clusters -LRB- NGC 869 and NGC 884 respectively -RRB- belong to the most beautiful objects of the night sky for binoculars and small telescopes.
` Perseus' was the codename of a possible Soviet spy alleged to have breached U.S. national security at Los Alamos during the Manhattan project.
The identity of this person, or even whether or not they actually existed, is unknown, and many of the facts in the matter are questionable.
Rostam and Sohrab puppet opera is an example of the most notable performance in modern day Iran.
Unilever decided that the catalysing agents would be an ideal addition to the product, but had worries over such a major alteration to the formula of one of their main products -LRB- a high profile example of this being New Coke, with a more direct example being in the late 1980s when one of Persil 's competitors, Daz, introduced a new formula that also increased cleaning performance, but caused allergic reactions in a small but noticeable percentage of the population -RRB-.
To this end they decided to split the catalyst agent -LRB- together with some fabric softening agents -RRB- into a new product, Persil Power.
Some believe that, had Power been successful, Unilever would have created a unified version of Persil with the catalysing agents.
Power was launched with a large publicity campaign, but a number of problems soon became apparent.
Adding more olive oil and perhaps some grated Parmesan produces Pistou.
Traditionally, ox tendons are considered inferior to wild game sinews since they have a higher fat content, leading to spoilage.
The character set the PJB uses internally is Latin-1 -LRB- ISO-8859-1 -RRB-, with some minor variations.
One of the Compaq developers stated that `` it 's missing some of the symbols in the range 160 to 255 -LRB- because I got bored when I was creating them :--RRB-.
There are some strange glyphs in the range 0 to 31, used for the various symbols on the screen. ''.
In order to overcome the rate of inflation, the investment portfolio has to get a higher rate of return, which typically will subject the portfolio to a number of risks.
Managing these portfolio risks is most often accomplished using asset allocation, which seeks to diversify investment risk and opportunity.
Recently, PHRs are being offered to people by employers and health insurance companies, however it is unclear if the PHR is transportable or transferable if a person switches jobs or insurance companies.
The PAI has a number of strengths for applied psychological assessment.
Second, it is relatively economical, assessing most of the constructs that are widely considered important in clinical personality assessment with 344 items.
Many of these people demonstrate a trend in dimensions of their personalities.
These individuals often experienced a `` peak experience ''.
The term `` type '' has not been used consistently in psychology and has become the source of some confusion.
Paper presented at the 2001 Annual Conference of the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology, San Diego, USA. personality type theories have received considerable criticism among psychometric researchers.
Most researchers now believe that it is impossible to explain the diversity of human personality with a small number of discrete types.
However, results from large population-based studies are not always applicable to the individual, and physicians generally take into account specific characteristics, such as age, gender, height/weight, diet, and environment, when evaluating an individual patient.
However, it is questioned whether personalized medicine represents a true departure from current medical practice, or whether it is an evolutionary transition based on the latest technology.Lesko L -LRB- 2007 -RRB- `` Personalized medicine : elusive dream or imminent reality ? ''.
Some may argue that the team began to play a less attractive form of the game, but nobody could argue with the results.
In 2001/2, the team nearly went the entire season undefeated with a side that only had former Adelaide City midfielder Brad Hassell as a major addition.
However, the most important amateur league -LRB- the Peruvian Football League -RRB- remained in the capital province, where rivalries arose between the Callao clubs, and those from the nearby capital of Lima.
The ` Ejército del Perú' also had a major role in the definition of national borders by participating in several wars against neighbor countries.
There are a number of versions of Cau-Cau.
These recipes may have African and Chinese influence as well as Italian.
'', Daniella Gallego, Fox News, August 8 2006. Detective Mike Burns of Darke County asserts that PJ sets stricter criteria for arrest than many law enforcement agencies.
Pesniary was the best-known Soviet group coming from the Belorussian SSR.
It was one of the very few -LRB- and possibly the first -RRB- Soviet bands to tour in America in 1976.
They 've toured the South of the USA together with a folk band New Christy Minstrels. 1974-1980 is considered the Golden Age era of the band when it achieved top popularity in the USSR, in Eastern Europe and in other countries.
` Herbicide Damage' -- Overspray or soil leaching of herbicidal sprays can present with several symptoms : : Prolonged exposure to overspray of ` glyphosate ` will cause yellow leaves and new leaves will be small and elongated.
Diagnostic Parasitologist Matt Bolek recommends that `` A deworming program should probably start at 7-8 weeks of age and deworm biweekly for 3-4 treatments ''.
His younger brother, Conte, achieved an arguably stronger critical reputation.
Pete did not shine noticeably in these efforts, possibly because he adjusted to Conte 's rather different and more conventional solo trumpet style.
Many claimed that both Jim Thorpe and Paddy Driscoll had beaten that record, both supposedly drop kicking field goals at 50 yards.
Driscoll was alleged to have kicked two from 50 yards in one game on September 28, 1924.
As he said in a later interview -LRB- Karlen -RRB-, `` Hopefully, some of Allen Saunders' expertise rubbed off on me when I worked on ` Steve Roper'. ''.
Liz often confides in Pete and, at times, he seems to be the only competent person that she works with and the one who will tell it to her straight when it comes to managing her personal life.
Much like Liz, Pete generally plays straight man to the other characters, especially to Liz when she is temporarily pushed over the edge.
Most often, he is utilized as a vehicle for receiving exposition in place of the audience.
During his career he has guest written for some of the UK 's most influential music magazines.
Pete Panto was the leader of a revolt against Joseph P. Ryan and his colleagues, many of them allegedly mafia, who ran the International Longshoremen 's Association -LSB- ILA -RSB-.
Panto 's murder was allegedly carried out by Mendy Weiss of Murder Inc.. Although Anastasia and Weiss were never indicted, Weiss would receive the electric chair in 1944 for a separate murder, whereas Anastasia was murdered by rival mobsters in 1957.
Pete Rock 's heavy use of intro and outro beats has also been widely influential.
Aside from their role as transitions, these are widely regarded as a way of displaying his large collection and as a challenge to other hip-hop producers to identify the records that the breaks come from.Making Beats : The Art of Sample-Based Hip Hop. p. 57 -LRB- Middletown, Connecticut : Wesleyan University Press.
A major factor may also have been a late influx of the Armenian vote in the California Governor 's race between George Deukmejian and Tom Bradley.
Whilst in London, he met several important black leaders and writers, such as Jomo Kenyatta.
One of South Africa 's most prominent black writers, his work deals with political and social issues, especially with racism.
Bone is regularly one of the ten most active MPs in Parliament, in terms of Questions asked and other contributions.
The album has become one of his most popular recordings.
Peter has also performed his music with several symphony orchestras and choirs.
It produced some 150,000 to 200,000 objects from 1882 until 1917. In 1900 his work represented Russia at the 1900 World 's Fair in Paris. As Carl Fabergé was a member of the Jury the House of Fabergé therefore exhibited ` hors concours' -LRB- without competing -RRB-.
Commercially the exposition was a great success and the firm acquired a great many orders and clients.
` Peter Dodson' is an American paleontologist who has published many papers and written and collaborated on books about dinosaurs.
Dodson described ` Avaceratops' in 1986 ; `` Suuwassea emilieae '' in 2004, and many others.
An authority on Ceratopsians, he has also authored several papers and textbooks on hadrosaurs and sauropods.
From the quiet reflection will come even more effective action. '' \ n `` People who do n't take risks generally make about two big mistakes a year.
People who do take risks generally make about two big mistakes a year. '' \ n `` The most important thing in communication is hearing what is n't said. '' \ n `` The purpose of business is to create and keep a customer. '' \ n `` There is nothing so useless as doing efficiently that which should not be done at all. '' \ n `` When a subject becomes totally obsolete we make it a required course. '' \ n `` Rank does not confer privilege or give power.
Niger ranks among the most eminent theologians and preachers of the latter half of the fifteenth century.
The effect is magical ; ` The Cherry Orchard' has almost never, in my experience, been at once so harrowing and so glittering ; nor its fragile rhythms so finely, surely spun, its development so natural, human and real. '''.
He has written and edited nearly 40 books, some of them translated into many languages.
Of his writings devoted to contemporary problems of urban planning in Britain, Europe and the USA, the best known is ` The Containment of Urban England' -LRB- 1973 -RRB-, an analysis of the British town and country planning system, based on a formidable amount of statistical research.
He maintains that supporters of Darwinism often mistake adaptation of existing species for a far more ambitious process required for evolution.
He therefore contends that the theory of evolution is wholly unlike other scientific theories with which it is often compared.
His early works are typified by very masculine working class men, most famously in ` The Heroic Dosser' -LRB- 1987 -RRB-.
Here he produced some of his most shocking and controversial work detailing the atrocities which were taking place at the time.
This descent is most likely nothing more than a legitimizing fiction.
Lavrov rejected this outlook, believing it possible to create socialism by basing revolutionary tactics on Russia 's individual history.
At present it can only be conjectured what Monamy 's whereabouts may have been during the years between about 1714 and 1720.
It is not impossible, however, that he spent some time in Cork, Ireland, which at this time was a hive of activity for English, and particularly Huguenot, craftsmen.
During these years it may reasonably be conjectured that another daughter, Mary, would have been born to Peter and Hannah.
Then, going past `` the second star to the right and straight on 'til morning, '' the flying ships reach Neverland, where the guests go past some of its landmarks, including the Indian village, a glowing volcano, Mermaid Lagoon and Skull Rock.
It is here that the guests encounter some of Neverland 's most famous residents, including Princess Tiger Lily, Mr. Smee, the Crocodile and Peter 's arch rival, Captain Hook -LRB- in addition to Peter and the Darlings -RRB-.
Though various dates for his emigration have been suggested, the record of Peter Pelham 's activities at Boston is well established.
Portraits of several other New England clergymen followed.
Pelham was seemingly intimate with John Smibert, who settled in Boston in 1730, for he painted Smibert 's portrait and made several engravings after Smibert 's works.
Legend claims that he killed his first opponent at age 14 in one of the 60 duels he fought over his lifetime.
It is said that he was never defeated, both in single combat and during the 6 wars, in which he took part.
At age 35, Musashi sheathed his sword to become a mentor, an artist and finally a writer, who penned one of Japan 's most influential pieces of literature -- `` The Book of the Five Rings. ''.
He provided Charlie Brown 's voice in several ` Peanuts' television specials and film from 1965 to 1969.
His best-known catch-phrase probably was the plaintive, `` I got a rock '', from the trick-or-treating scenes in ` Great Pumpkin'.
A point of lasting controversy about P. Munch is a visit he allegedly paid to the German town of Rostock just a few weeks before the German occupation.
During this visit he would have met with several Nazi dignitaries, Heinrich Himmler among them.
According to the myth, Munch had been warned in advance about the German intentions towards Denmark, and had agreed to making the occupation happen as peacefully as possible.
This would supposedly account for the limited Danish response on April 9 1940, and Munch 's own willingness to surrender once the invasion was under way.
Schjeldahl 's lasting influence comes from his ability to write poetry and criticize art in the late twentieth century where most audiences have tended to stray away from the arts in favor of more commercialized entertainment.
Steele has also revealed in recent interviews that Type O Negative 's split from Roadrunner Records, aside from a poor offer, had to do with an allegedly unauthorized release of a ` Best Of' compilation.
Additionally, he later revealed on MTV 's ` Headbangers Ball' that the new alliance with SPV Records is probably his favorite thing about ` Dead Again' from a production standpoint.In April 2007, Steele revealed that he began identifying himself as Roman Catholic in recent years, after decades of self-professed atheism.
But after going through a midlife crisis and having many things change very quickly, it made me realize my mortality.
`` From a capitalist point of view at best this will be the worst post-war slump, but it is possible that it will be worse than the slump of 1929-33 ''.
Taylor attracted attention from 1973 when he appeared for the prosecution in several cases connected to the corrupt architect John Poulson, including that of Poulson himself.
Over the next three years, the prosecutions succeeded and many of those involved were jailed.
He also prosecuted Stefan Kiszko in July 1976, in what would become one of the most notorious miscarriages of justice in British Law in the 20th Century.
According to, Travers is the nations most blurbed film critic.
He has also shown a great deal of disdain for certain directors, most notably Michael Bay and his films.
One of the most known films made by Peter Weiss is an experimental one, ` The Mirage' -LRB- 1959 -RRB- and the second one - it is very seldom mentioned - is a film Weiss directed in Paris 1960 together with Barbro Boman, a film with the title ` Play Girls' or ` The Flamboyant Sex' -LRB- ` Schwedische Mädchen in Paris' or ` Verlockung' in German -RRB-.
Withe formed a deadly and almost telepathic partnership up front with young starlet Gary Shaw, and he netted 20 times in 36 games to finish joint-top scorer in the league with Tottenham Hotspur 's Steve Archibald in that first season as Aston Villa went on to win the Football League title.
Withe was also the scorer of Villa 's winner against Bayern Munich in the European Cup final of 1982, the most important match in the club 's history.
The number of his religious increasing, Peter gave them some statutes grounded on the rule of St. Augustine.
These were approved by pope Paschal II, and having afterwards been adopted by many other communities of Canons Regular, the Portuensis Congregation was formed.
By common consent Peter has always been called Blessed.
The attenuation and want of flexibility of contour in the nude are perhaps most conspicuous in his frescoes of classical subjects in the Glyptothek, especially in that representing the contention for the body of Patroclus.
Karl Hermann was one of Cornelius 's earliest and most esteemed scholars, a man of simple and fervent nature, painstaking to the utmost, a very type of the finest German student nature ; Kaulbach and Adam Eberle were also amongst his scholars.
Every public edifice in Munich and other German cities which were embellished with frescoes, became, as in Italy, a school of art of the very best kind ; for the decoration of a public building begets a practical knowledge of design.
In the Pinakothek his sketches and small drawings sufficed ; but in the Ludwigskirche the invention even. of some of the subjects was entrusted to his scholar Hermann.
In recent years there has been a tendency to supplant the petits chevaux at French resorts by the boule or ball game, on the same principle of gambling ; in this a ball is rolled on a basin-shaped table so that it may eventually settle in one of a number of shallow cups, each marked with a figure.
His most comprehensive work, written around 1443 and one of his last, was ` The Net of Faith'.
They are however unrelated to Old World family Muscicapidae -LRB- to which other species with such names belong -RRB-, or the monarch flycatchers -LRB- Monarchidae -RRB-.
Six companies are operating in Nigeria and are listed with their countries of origin -LRB- most of the following is extracted from a Human Rights Watch report -RRB- : ; ` Royal Dutch Shell -LRB- British/Dutch -RRB-' : Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited -LRB- SPDC -RRB-, usually known simply as ` Shell Nigeria' : A joint venture operated by Shell accounts for fifty percent of Nigerian 's total oil production -LRB- in 1997 -RRB- from more than eighty oil fields.
It is still unknown whether Christus visited Italy, and brought style and technical accomplishments of the greatest Northern European painters directly to Antonello da Messina and other Italian artists, or whether his paintings were purchased by Italians.
A document testifying to the presence of a `` Piero da Bruggia '' -LRB- Petrus from Bruges ? -RRB- in Milan may suggest that he visited that city at the same time as Antonello, and the two artists may even have met.
This might account for the remarkable similarities between the ` Portrait of a Man' attributed to Christus in the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and many of Antonello 's portraits, including the supposed self-portrait in the National Gallery in London.
The composition of a ` Lamentation' now at the Metropolitan Museum of Art so closely inspired a marble relief by Antonello Gagini in the cathedral at Palermo that it has been suggested that the picture may have been painted for an Italian client. '' ''.
There are numerous inaccuracies and fables.
This Biblical history met with great success, as witness the large number of manuscripts, the mention of his name in all the libraries of the Middle Ages, the lists of classical books for the universities and schools, the quotations and the eulogies with which the name of its author is everywhere accompanied -LRB- cf. the canonist Huguccio, about 1190 -RRB- and its numerous translations, most of all the ` Bible Historiale' in French.
He held the title of ` magistar,' indicating that he probably studied at the University of Paris.
Given the overlap of their lives and supposed tenures at Paris, Petrus may have been Franco of Cologne 's student.
It is recorded that in 1298 he composed a monophonic office for the royal palace chapel at Paris, and that in 1301-2, he resided at the court of the Bishop of Amiens, undoubtedly as a member of his clerical staff, and most likely his chapel staff as well.
Contemporary and slightly later commentators spoke well of Petrus de Cruce ; no less than the theorist Jacobus de Liege called him, `` that worthy practical musician, who composed so many beautiful and good pieces of mensural polyphony and followed Franco 's precepts. ''.
The Rada loa spirits like Danbala, Ezili Freda and Papa Legba -- are said to come from Africa, from the former Dahomean empire.
Many scholars believe that the name `` Rada '' is a corruption of `` Arara, '' an African port from whence many slave ships were launched.
It was the best-selling car in Europe from 2001 to 2003.
The 1.4 L XR was the best-selling model.
Young has made numerous contributions to this literature.
Although generally similar to the Fokker D.VII in looks and performance, the D.XII was widely considered to be inferior in handling characteristics and difficult to land.
Some common reasons for this surgical access are obstetric delivery and hernia repair.
Wooden buildings were erected on Main Street and Pecan Street, many by Conrad Pfluger -- one of Henry Pfluger, Sr. 's eight sons.
During that period, several area school districts consolidated with Pflugerville High School.
On 20 Nightal, 1371 DR -LRB- the Year of the Unstrung Harp -RRB-, the Sharn Wall was unintentionally punctured by the elf Galaeron Nihmedu and the Shadovar prince Melegaunt Tanthul, allowing many of the phaerimm to escape.
Several phaerimm also took up residence in the ruins of Myth Drannor and others conquered the beholder city of Ootul.
Later, Galaeron and many others came to suspect that the Shadovar had planned for the phaerimm to be released near Evereska all along due to Shade 's complete disregard of the damage it was causing by melting the High Ice glaciers.
The Shadovar and an alliance of many peoples including Waterdeep, Silverymoon, Cormyr, the Uthgardt barbarians, Dalesmen, Evermeet, and Evereska managed to defeat the phaerimm attacking Evereska and their armies, although the Faerunians and the Shadovar came into conflict when Shade decided to flood Anauroch by melting the High Ice, causing massive meteorological changes throughout northwest Faerun.
Phage therapy is today a widespread form of treatment in that region.
These and other symptoms have been observed.
The 45 symbols were numbered by Arthur Evans from 01 to 45, and this numbering has become the conventional reference used by most researchers.
Some symbols have been compared with Linear A characters by Nahm, Timm, and others.
` Phalaenopsis' are not only outstanding in their beauty, but also unique in that in some species, the flowers turn into green leaves after pollination.
As in many other plants, the petals of the orchid flowers serve to attract pollinating insects and protect essential organs.
In many ` Phalaenopsis' species such as ` P.violacea', the petals and sepals find new uses following pollination and thus escaping programmed cell death.
This is believed to be an adaptation to gain the light requirements needed to grow, according to Christenson.
However, they could not get enough money to buy more weapons until they had proved themselves with a military attack of some sort.
Everyone said they needed something big and explosive because the people of Vietnam were short on patience.
Those that they sent to the south were wasted on some Vietnamese traitors.
In other words, he and I were pursuing one and the same goal, but our means were considerably different.
Fires have burned over most of the region in the past.
As a result of this and the dry sites, much of the tree growth is coniferous with some white birch mixed in.
The white pine-white birch type along the shores of several of the lakes and ponds adds immeasurably to their attractiveness.
Stands of some of the best quality Adirondack hardwoods exist in the covelike pockets of the unburned area in the northeast.
In some jurisdictions, such as Australia, pharmacists are compensated for providing medication reviews for patients outside of acute or long-term care settings.
Growth in other fields notwithstanding, generics are still a large part of the picture.
For instance, ginseng which is field farmed may have significant problems with fungus, making contamination with fungicides an issue.
The wildcrafted echinacea, black cohosh and American ginseng often rely upon old growth root, often in excess of 50 years of age and it is not clear that younger stock will have the same pharmaceutical effect.
Several hospital pharmacies have decided to outsource high risk preparations and some other compounding functions to companies who specialize in compounding.
Socrates is considered as one who knows how to perform magic with words, and notably, not with written letters.
His words act as a pharmakon -LRB- as a remedy, or allegedly as a poison as far as the Athenian authority were concerned -RRB- and change, cure the soul of the listener.
Phase transitions often -LRB- but not always -RRB- take place between phases with different symmetry.
The high density of Samsung 's prototype PRAM device suggested it could be a viable Flash competitor, and not limited to niche roles as other devices have been.
Some technologies are known to perform better than others in this regard.
Phawngpui Peak in Mizoram exhibits the most enchanting view of Mizoram.
This cliff is believed to be haunted by spirits.
When discussing the phenomenon of tyranny Aristotle comes to vague conclusions and often contradictions are observed.
Several deaths have been reported due to drug interaction-related serotonin syndrome such as the case of Libby Zion.
Phenomenology, generally speaking, favored an approach to design that was highly personal and inward looking.
Though most phenomenologists, Norberg-Schulz, for example, were highly critical of modernism and the International Style in particular, phenomenologically-oriented architects favored the clean and the simple over the complex or the organic.
Though interest in phenomenology has waned in recent times, several architects, such as Steven Holl and Peter Zumthor, claim to be phenomenologists.
The people of Phetchaburi engage in a variety of recreational activities.
Fishing in the Phetchaburi River is quite popular.
While this matter is ambiguous, it is generally agreed that he is a very influential figure in that period, harboring respect from many officers.
It is also said that he strongly believed in Buddhism, thus gaining support from many monks, who feared Thailand was being converted to Christianity.
It has been reported that Brougton died as a victim of tuberculosis in Colorado but this claim has not been verified.
If it were not for Mu Theta 's strength during this time in the fraternity 's history, Phi Kappa probably would not have survived.
As the members of Mu Theta fanned out across the South each summer break, many returned to their hometowns and founded Phi Kappa chapters.
As it were to be expected this new grouping were received with distrust by the other Latin fraternal organizations at the university.
He painted several large chalice ` kraters', often with two registers of figures ; unlike his master, he seems to have preferred larger vessels in general.
His themes may be partially influenced by contemporary theatre.
His best-known works are video art, often featuring teenagers.
His best known work is ` They Shoot Horses' -LRB- 2004 -RRB- consisting of two videos each lasting seven hours and shown at the same time on different walls.
After working a number of film jobs, including being an assistant director for a number of Abbott and Costello films, Karlson directed his first film in 1944 and in 1948 directed the first film starring Marilyn Monroe, ` Ladies of the Chorus'.
He worked on a number of low-budget projects for Monogram Pictures and Eagle-Lion Films before making his mark in 1950.
Despite the production issues, many of the album 's songs remain concert favorties, including the title track, `` Salvation Army Band, '' and `` The Survivor. ''.
His animations have been described as `` satirical grotesque '' Retrieved December, 2008. and often portray the dark side of human nature and contemporary social, political, and religious values in a humorous and at times, shocking way.
Mulloy has made over 30 animated films many of which are in themed groupings based on Hollywood genres.
Mulloy has won many international awards for his work and has conducted several workshops for young animators.
Pringle speaks in a variety of conference and church situations around the world.
Iverson was moved back to point guard and flourished, having arguably his finest season.
He also impressed many with his willingness to get other players involved in the offense.
It has been claimed that Jessup 's use of a postcard in responding to Allende publicized their correspondence.
This possibility, some theorists consider, was plausible cause for the government to have intervened, disrupting the conversation by replacing Allende with Allen, who was possibly a CIA agent monitoring Allende 's inbound mail.
This theory is suspect for several reasons, not the least of which is the fact that domestic intelligence gathering nor communications within the United States are within the purview of the CIA.
Approximately one year later, a rumor was circulated that Hugh Clark, a Kensington school director who was Catholic, was visiting a girls school where he demanded that the principal stop Bible reading in school.
The story also claimed that the principal refused and that she would rather lose her job.
Although this is controversial, many collectors believe that a mint stamp is more valuable when the gum has been undisturbed.
There are many fakers who are happy to accommodate them so that they can receive a premium price for a mint-never-hinged stamp.
There are situations where the original gum ` should' have been washed off ; bright fresh gum on the 1933 WIPA souvenir sheet of Austria would probably be false since the acidic nature of the original gum would cause the paper to deteriorate.
Most of the buyers of these popular issues were not, of course, `` serious '' stamp collectors.
Like other makers of the era they offered a wide line of radios beginning with five-tube sets all the way up to high-fidelity consoles with 20 tubes in 1937-38.
This refugee ensemble gathered together some of Hungary 's finest musical talent and was directed by none other than Zoltán Rozsnyai, former conductor of the Hungarian National Philharmonic.
Through the ardent efforts of Rozsnyai and honorary president Antal Doráti, the Philharmonia Hungarica quickly matured into one of Europe 's most distinguished orchestras.
Doráti 's recording has been widely reported as a world-first, however this was not the case.
Professor Goad is known internationally for his research in a variety of areas, including architectural history, theory and design.
He is a well-known authority on modern Australian architecture.
One of his most notable fields of expertise is the life and work of Robin Boyd.
As an architect, his most notable work has been for the Melbourne firm, Corrigan and Edmond, as project architect for the RMIT Building 8 project in Swanston Street, central Melbourne.
They are almost all specialist pollinators -LRB- oligoleges -RRB- of many species of plants, especially in the Sonoran desert, where Timberlake carried out extensive collecting for decades.
In 1309, he accused Thamar of adultery, probably on a falsified charge.
Philip appealed to the Pope and other powers in Europe to bring an end to the rising Ottoman threat.
As a young boy he was probably a cowherd and it is assumed that he learned to read and write at the local parish school.
Local folk tales claim that he had such a brilliant memory that he could recite the pastor 's sermon after attending mass on Sunday.
This was also said, falsely and unwarrantably, by one of the crew and enraged the Japanese Taiko, Toyotomi Hideyoshi, generally called Taicosama by Europeans, who commanded on 8 December, 1596, the arrest of the Franciscans in the monastery at Miako, now Kyoto, whither St. Philip had gone.
They were finally defeated in the year 248, but the legions were not satisfied with the result, probably due to a low share of the plunder, if any.
Two other usurpers, Marcus Silbannacus and Sponsianus, are reported to have started rebellions without much success.
Admission to this school is by competitive examination, unlike many public Middle Schools in New York City.
Achievement First Charter School has recently been added in addition to the school, provoking many angry parents, teachers, and students alike.
Many parents believe that the extra school within the building could possibly affect the Schuyler students attending and could hurt their educations, therefore lowering the standards and educational standing of the school.
It was intensely engaged against several kidnap-for-ransom -LRB- KFRC -RRB- gangs in Central Mindanao.
One of the most celebrated accomplishments of the unit during this period was the rescue of Father BLANCO and Anthony BIEL from the Abu Sayyaf.
This operation soon led to several intense but nonetheless successful combat operations against the ASG and the MNLF Lost Command in Basilan and Jolo, which unfortunately escalated to alarming heights with the arrival of the Philippine Army in the area.
During the day of the elections itself, it was reported that many voters' names were mixed up or removed from the registries at ballot stations, causing much consternation.
It was also reported that several areas in Maguindanao were completely overrun by vote-buying, both on the local and national levels.
Sungka, while not as popular as it once was, is still viewed as a significant part of the traditional native Filipino games.
Majhong is played in some Filipino communities.
A statue was erected of him, possibly at a ` Mouseion' at Cos, and his work was explicitly acknowledged as a classic by both Theocritus and Callimachus.
-LRB- This, and many other flipsides, were deliberately undistinguished instrumentals, which were intended to focus attention on the A-sides.
Also, most discographies, including the one in the ` Back to Mono' booklet, list two items with catalogue number Philles 123 : `` Stumble And Fall '' by Darlene Love was withdrawn and replaced with `` Walking in the Rain '' by The Ronettes.
Despite the prior claim that Philles 134, 135, and 136 were not released in the United States, promo and regular stock copies of all 3 exist, as well as the withdrawn Darlene Love single listed above.
The settlement has been run by a variety of church and welfare groups over time.
Bush spent two years at Banff Centre School of Fine Arts in Canada from 1981-83 ; there he met Steve Reich and several other musicians who were formative influences for the direction of his career.
She was also honored by many of America 's founding fathers, including George Washinton.
After having two types of testicular cancer he set up the UK 's most famous testicular cancer website with the help of well known musicians Steve White and Paul Weller in April 2003.
During this time Philly also helped to raise awareness of testosterone replacement, with long-time campaigner and cancer survivor Nick O'Hara Smith, in men who had lost a testicle or testicles to injury or cancer, a subject which had been widely ignored until Nick exerted pressure on health authorities.
It has been suggested that this may be due to the fact that Philodendrons have many geographic and time barriers that would prevent any such cross pollination.
To further test a potential Full Philo 's merit, he or she must also present a petition reflecting the approval of other Philolexians and some work of original creative merit in order to be considered at New Member Night, as well as surviving ` The Horrors'.
Probably their most popular being `` My Elusive Dreams '' which would go on to be mentioned in The Pogues' song, `` A Pair of Brown Eyes ''.
This idea may be further refined, and it may be said that the haiku is a poor vehicle for describing a lover 's affection, as opposed to the more organically correct sonnet.
Generally, working artists accept some form of the concept of organic form -LRB- although philosophers like Rudolf Arnheim have added support -RRB-, whereas philosophers have tended to regard it as vague and irrelevant.
In this and most other civilized countries, for example, an engagement by which a person should sell himself, or allow himself to be sold, as a slave, would be null and void ; neither enforced by law nor by opinion.
The ground for thus limiting his power of voluntarily disposing of his own lot in life, is apparent, and is very clearly seen in this extreme case.
` Investigations' was influential in the development of `` ordinary language philosophy '', which was promoted by Gilbert Ryle, J.L. Austin, and a few others.
However, most of the linguistic structure can in principle be revised, even logic, in order to better model the world.
Dummett, among others, argued that truth conditions should be dispensed with in the theory of meaning, and replaced by assertibility conditions.
An incident catches the public 's attention and certain types of people `` get on the bandwagon '', so to speak.
It is particularly apparent when the incident appears to be the result of well-known political or religious beliefs, but it can also occur in response to intense media attention.
However, if the right kind of people begin to believe it was arson, caused by deliberate action, the threat that more arsons will be committed increases drastically.
Max Stirner was a philosopher whose `` name appears with familiar regularity in historically-orientated surveys of anarchist thought as one of the earliest and best-known exponents of individualist anarchism. ''.
Cambridge University Press. p. 177 -RRB- was published, which is considered to be `` a founding text in the tradition of individualist anarchism. ''.
Thus advertising is claimed to perform the valuable role of helping people experience a more variegated and interesting life.
New York, NY : Macmillan. but traditional descriptions of molecular structure and chemical bonding fail to account for the properties of many substances, including metals and metal complexesEbbing, D., & Gammon, S. -LRB- 2005 -RRB-.
For example, many rocks exist as mineral complexes composed of multiple ions that do not occur in fixed proportions or spatial relationships to one another.
One debate that has captured the interest of many philosophers is the debate over the meaning of ` universals'.
Some have said that the expression stands for some real, abstract universal out in the world called `` rocks ''.
Others have said that the word stands for some collection of particular, individual rocks that we happen to put into a common category.
It is usually hoped that there exists some interpretation in which the rules of the game hold.
Many formalists would say that in practice, the axiom systems to be studied will be suggested by the demands of science or other areas of mathematics.
Einstein 's general relativity as well as the redshift of the light from receding distant galaxies indicate that the entire Universe and possibly space-time itself began about 13.7 billion years ago in the big bang.
Others, especially Feyerabend and some post-modernist thinkers, have argued that there is insufficient difference between social practices in science and other disciplines to maintain this distinction.
It is apparent that social factors play an important and direct role in scientific method, but that they do not serve to differentiate science from other disciplines.
Still, many researchers have indicated a lack of patience for overly dogmatic proponents of one method or anotherSlife, B.D. and Gantt, E.E. -LRB- 1999 -RRB- Methodological pluralism : a framework for psychotherapy research.
In recent years sociologists have frequently engaged with figures such as Jacques Derrida and Richard Rorty, just as social philosophy has often met with social theory.
The design of the programme emanates from the view that to understand social phenomena one must approach them from several complementary disciplinary directions and analytical frameworks.
In this regard, the study of ` philosophy' is considered important because it both equips students with meta-tools such as the ability to reason rigorously and logically, and facilitates ethical reflection.
The study of ` politics' is considered necessary because it acquaints students with the authoritative structures that govern society and help solve collective action problems.
Finally, studying ` economics' is seen as vital in the modern world because political decisions often concern economic matters, and government decisions are often influenced by economic events.
In original performances of' A Midsummer Night 's Dream', the actor who played Egeus and the actor who played Philostrate were probably one and the same.
ISBN 0-83370-627-6 Howard Furness, editor of several Shakespeare editions, interprets this a little differently, saying that Shakespeare may not have originally intended both roles to be played by the same person, but that directors combined the roles to save money.
In cases where one actor was playing both roles, Egeus' character would probably have filled both roles in this scene, absorbing Philostrate 's lines into his own.Furness, Horace Howard -LRB- Ed -RRB-.
Age is reportedly a factor in non-retractability : according to Huntley ` et al.' the foreskin is reportedly retractable in approximately 50 % of cases at 1 year of age, 90 % by 3 years of age, and 99 % by age 17.
These so-called anti-miscegenation laws were enforced in several US states until 1967.
The story is also used by some Christian Identity groups, naming themselves Phineas Priesthood after Phinehas.
They also claim that it is a Biblical injunction against interracial couples, transforming a conflict about temptation to idolatry into one about race.
Molyvann created landmark buildings such as the Preah Suramarit National Theatre and the Council of Ministers building, other architects helped construct the newly founded Royal Khmer University, the Institute of Foreign Languages and the National Sports Centre.
It is also widely accepted that the Phoenicians were very important in the establishment of many ancient dog breeds through the Mediterranean basin.
There is some controversy as to how best classify the reports on the night in question.
Some are of the opinion that the differing nature of the eyewitness reports indicates that several unidentified objects were in the area, each of which was its own separate ` event.'.
MARDI images had been intended to help pinpoint exactly where the lander has landed, and possibly help find potential science targets.
MARDI was built by Malin Space Science Systems, and it is the lightest and most efficient camera ever to land on Mars.
Certain species of these seemingly benign spiders invade webs of other spiders and eat the host, the eggs or the prey.
In some cases the spider vibrates the web of other spiders, mimicking the struggle of trapped prey to lure the host of the web closer.
Pholcids are natural predators of the ` Tegenaria' species, and are known to attack and eat redback spiders and huntsman spiders.
By 2007, only a few chat line companies remained active.
In addition to the standard Free Chat lines there are also many popular services that tailor to the Gay Community, the oldest such service is The Gay Connection which started in 1985 in Los Angeles California, and now operates numbers nationwide.
There are also some interesting tourist attractions in this park like Nu?c Ngang -LRB- lit. : Horizontal Spring -RRB-, a spring runs horizontally instead of vertically as usual ; ? á N?m -LRB- Crouching Stone -RRB-, a stone blockading a stream current ; Chân Th?t -LRB- Chopping Board -RRB-, a chopping-board-shaped stone.
But above all, the most spectacular scene is this area is Nu?c Tr?i -LRB- Surfacing Stream -RRB-, a stream surfacing from the ground.
The term ` gramophone' would generally be taken to refer to a wind-up machine, and from the 1960s onwards the more common term would be ` record player' or ` turntable' as part of a system that also played cassettes and included radio.
Such a system would be called a ` hi-fi' or ` stereo' -LRB- most systems being stereophonic by the mid-1960s -RRB-.'.
AD 900 -- 1400. \ nVowels were lengthened before,,,, probably also,,, when not followed by a third consonant or two consonants and two syllables.
This probably occurred around AD 1000. \ n \ nLater on, many of these vowels were shortened again ; but evidence from the Ormulum shows that this lengthening was once quite general.
Interestingly, both French and Spanish acquired new initial -LSB- h -RSB- in mediaval times, but these were later lost in both languages in a `` second round '' of h-dropping -LRB- however it should be noted that some dialects of Spanish re-acquired / h / from Spanish / x / -RRB-.
It is also known from several Scandinavian dialects, for instance Älvdalsmal and the dialect of Roslagen where it is found already in Runic Swedish.
They are generally referred to as high energy phosphate, as are the phosphagens in muscle tissue.
Although some lipid-binding proteins are able to insert themselves into membranes and could hypothetically recognise the type of acyl chain or the resulting properties of the membrane, many lipid-binding proteins are cytosolic and localise to the membrane by binding only the headgroups of lipids.
If this is the case, it suggests that a PA-binding domain must not only be able to bind PA specifically but must also be able to identify those head-groups that are at the correct angle.
Thus it seems that, though PA and DAG are interconvertible, the different species of lipid can have different biological activities ; and this may enable the two lipids to maintain separate signaling pathways.
Phosphatidylcholines are such a major component of lecithin, that, in some contexts, the terms are sometime used as synonyms.
These common phosphonates are the structure analogues to the well-known aminopolycarboxylates NTA, EDTA, and DTPA.
Phosphorus is also an important component in steel production, in the making of phosphor bronze, and in many other related products.
Sodium tripolyphosphate made from phosphoric acid is used in laundry detergents in some countries, but banned for this use in others.
Phosphoric acid made from elemental phosphorus is used in food applications such as some soda beverages.
Photios continued his career as a writer in the reign of Leo who probably rehabilitated his reputation within the next few years ; in his ` Epitaphios' on his brothers, a text probably written in 888, the emperor presents Photios favorably, portraying him as the legitimate archbishop, and the instrument of ultimate unity, an image that jars with his attitude to the patriarch in 886-887. S..
Tougher, ` The Reign of Leo VI', 85-86 Confirmation that Photios was rehabilitated comes upon his death : according to some chronicles his body was permitted to be buried in Constantinople.
While organizing the show Stieglitz had a disagreement with some of the more conservative members of the Club about which photographers should be included.
To strengthen his position, Stieglitz rapidly formed an invitation-only group, which he called the Photo-Secession, to give the impression that his views were backed by many other prominent photographers.
Photobiotin is used in many biology laboratories for patterning proteins, ligands, and other species onto solid substrates.
UV lasers stimulate photobiotin to attach various surfaces, where scientists can visualize the distribution of the species that they are looking for.
Using this technique, they were able to bind several species to the surface simultaneously using different frequencies of UV laser light.
In other words, photoelectrolysis is the conversion of light into a current, and then the division of a molecule using that current.Photoelectrolysis' main attractiveness to many engineers and technologists is its potential to divide water into hydrogen and oxygen.
Photoelectrolysis is often seen as having the potential to fulfill that need.
Recently, claims for practical methods to improve the stability of ascorbate developers have been made by several experimenters.
In places such as the city of Hermosa Beach in California, commercial photography on both public property and private property is subject to permit regulations and possibly also insurance requirements.
In addition, if the photography has aspects that may be disruptive to others, such as additional equipment or a significant number of personnel or the use of public areas for more than four hours, it is necessary to obtain a permit.
There is some concern by news photographers that the profession of photojournalism as it is known today could change to such a degree that it is unrecognizable as image-capturing technology naturally progresses.
One by one, other methods appeared : among them were manifold writers -LRB- used by Mark Twain -RRB-, copying baths, copying books and roller copiers.
Among the most significant of them was the Blue process in the early 1870s, which was mainly used to make blueprints of architectural and engineering drawings.
Stencil duplicators -LRB- more commonly known as `` Mimeograph machines '' -RRB- surfaced in 1874, and the Cyclostyle in 1891.
All were manual ; most involved messy fluids and were accident-prone.
Some live Music Joints play Thai folk \ nKaraoke clubs can be found in some of the many hotels and customers can either sing to everyone or rent a private room \ nBarbecues are large Thai-style restaurants which play music and serve alcohol.
Updates for serial database software can be found on many Internet sites.
The Phunk Junkeez were a massively popular act in the Valley throughout the early '90s, playing huge, illegal warehouse keggers and routinely drawing more than 1,000 fans into clubs.
Seeing the writing on the wall Mike Kramer left the band early as the bands guitarist leaving this spot to turn over many many times throughout the years.
The most famous Phuthi leader in the historical record was the powerful Chief Moorosi -LRB- born in 1795 -RRB-, who died in unclear circumstances on Mount Moorosi -LRB- Sotho ` Thaba Moorosi' -RRB- in 1879, after a protracted nine-month siege by the British, ` Boers' -LRB- i.e. Afrikaner -RRB- and Basotho forces -LRB- including the military participation of the Cape Mounted Riflemen -RRB-.
This siege is often referred to as `` Moorosi 's Rebellion ''.
The issue that triggered the siege was alleged livestock theft in the Herschel area.
Common names for this genus and many other related genera in the subfamily Melolonthinae are May beetles, June bugs, and June beetles.
Since the discovery of the cosmic microwave background in 1965 it has been regarded as the best theory of the origin and evolution of the cosmos.
Before the late 1960s, many cosmologists thought the infinitely dense singularity at the starting time of Friedmann 's cosmological model was a mathematical over-idealization, and that the universe was contracting before entering the hot dense state and starting to expand again.
This led the majority of cosmologists to accept the Big Bang, in which the universe we observe began a finite time ago.
#The `` erroneous claim that the -LSB- physical symbol system hypothesis -RSB- lacks symbol grounding '' which is presumed to be a requirement for general intelligent action.
#The common belief that AI requires non-symbolic processing -LRB- that which can be supplied by a connectionist architecture for instance -RRB-.
#The common statement that the brain is simply not a computer and that `` computation as it is currently understood, does not provide an appropriate model for intelligence ''.
#And last of all that it is also believed in by some that the brain is essentially mindless, most of what takes place are chemical reactions and that human intelligent behaviour is analogous to the intelligent behaviour displayed for example by ant colonies.
Modern physical theatre has grown from a variety of origins.
Mime and theatrical clowning schools such as ` L'École Internationale de Théâtre Jacques Lecoq' in Paris have had a big influence on many modern expressions of physical theatre, and practitioners such as Steven Berkoff and John Wright received their initial training at such institutions.
Contemporary Dance has also had a strong influence on what we regard as physical theatre, partly because most physical theatre requires actors to have a level of physical control and flexibility rarely found in those who do not have some sort of movement background.
Modern physical theatre also has strong roots in more ancient traditions such as ` Commedia dell ` arte' and some suggest links to the ancient Greek theatre, particularly the theatre of Aristophanes.
Also relevant is : Many people who are trained as physicists, however, use their skills in other parts of the economy, in particular in engineering, computing, and finance.
Some physicists take up careers where their knowledge of physics can be combined with further training in other disciplines, such as patent law in industry or private practice.
In the United States, a majority of those in the private sector with a physics degree work outside physics, astronomy and engineering altogether.
First, it is possible that the various ships' deflector shields, when hit with radiation from explosions or blasters, cause the ships themselves to vibrate, producing sound.
Second, the audio may be synthetically generated by ships' sensor systems.
Generally, forms which result from similar histories are characterized by certain similar features, and differences in history result in corresponding differences of form, usually resulting in distinctive features which are obvious to the casual observer, but this is not always the case.
Early sauropodomorphs, including the group traditionally called `` prosauropods '', may also have had air sacs.
One study in 2007 concluded that prosauropods likely had abdominal and cervical air sacs, based on the evidence for them in sister taxa -LRB- theropods and sauropods -RRB-.
The study concluded that it was impossible to determine whether prosauropods had a bird-like flow-through lung, but that the air sacs were almost certainly present.
There are conflicting studies, and it is unclear if phytoestrogens have any effect on the cause or prevention of cancer in females.
A 2006 review article stated the opinion that not enough information is available, and that even if isoflavones have mechanisms to inhibit tumor growth, ` in vitro' results justify the need to evaluate, at cellular level, the impact of isoflavones on breast tissue in females at high risk for breast cancer.The generally accepted position on this topic is that phytoestrogens may be beneficial for healthy females and that females with known breast cancer should be aware of potential risks and consider avoiding consumption until more information is available.
Despite their great similarities in appearance and lifestyle, there are still a number of minor differences that distinguish phytosaurs from true crocodiles.
It is possible however that phytosaurs had a fleshy palate, as many Mesozoic crocodiles are presumed to have had.
This adaptation may have developed to allow them to breathe while the rest of the body was submerged.
Formulas of this type, now known as Machin-like formulas, were used to set several successive records and remained the best known method for calculating ? well into the age of computers.
Among the many Italian aircraft manufacturers, during World War II, the majority -LRB- such as Savoia-Marchetti and Caproni -RRB- designed and built mixed-construction aircraft, or, in the case of CANT, completely made of wood.
The Piaggio P. 119 was one of the best examples of these projects.
The' 5' series fighters are well known, especially the Fiat G. 55 and the Macchi C. 205, but there were two other fighters on the same level, the Caproni-Vizzola F. 6 and the Piaggio P. 119, both of which did not enter production.
Composite forged metal frames were preferred by many European makers until the American system was fully adopted by the early 20th century.
It is the soloist who leads to the B flat major slow movement, where the first theme is entrusted to the orchestra, to be capped by the soloist with material of a more rhapsodic kind.
The piano employs many difficult pianist devices most notably rapid arpeggios.
The volume alternately ranges about ` mezzopiano' and ` pianissimo', until after several almost revealing seconds of ` forte' the pianist has the music retire into a ` pianissimo' mystery in which it would, it appears, remain immersed indefinitely.
Over the next eight bars, the piano 's motions circle ever higher with hardly a crescendo, then drop for a moment, summoning force.The music hardly grows any louder, only to a ` piano', but it is emotionally so intense that it can not possibly remain there.
For several bars the volume draws back, then erupts into a powerfully sad ` fortissimo' with heavy, dissonant chords in the piano part.
The expansive first movement is one of Mozart 's most symphonic concerto movements.
He may have begun this work as early as 1914, according to the April 12 issue of ` Muzyka'. Norris, 60.
He may have also tinkered with sketches in his early years in the United States.
His involvement had him appearing on a flatbed truck in many parades, which led to his song `` Peachtree Parade ''.
From the mid 1950s until the late 1960s, he recorded for several companies, including Columbia, for which he made several records, Checker, for whom he recorded 8 sides with Willie Dixon on bass, and Groove Records, a subsidiary of RCA Victor, producing the first hit for that label.
On Okeh Records, in 1961, he began using the name Dr. Feelgood and the Interns, releasing several hits, including the much-covered `` Doctor Feel-Good ''.
It is perhaps the first major piano work -LRB- if not work of any instrumentation -RRB- to so thoroughly incorporate a baroque contrapuntal style -LRB- the fugue -RRB- within an originally Classical structure -LRB- the sonata form -RRB- -LRB- see fourth movement -RRB-.
Folk songs appearing in the scherzo include `` My Old Kentucky Home, '' `` Sailor 's Hornpipe, '' `` The Campbells are Coming, '' `` Long, Long Ago, '' `` Hold the Fort, '' and `` There Is a Fountain Filled with Blood, '' among many others.
World Champion Petrosian 's sixth place finish was a disappointment, but he may have still been feeling the strain of his recent World Championship match with Spassky, who was eight years his junior.
However, a number of proteins require chaperonins for proper folding.
Thus, ` Pichia' is unable to produce a number of proteins for which the host lacks the appropriate chaperones.
Cognates of the term appear in other languages and cultures, presumably also derived from the Portuguese word, and it is not controversial or derogatory in these contexts.
Some of these words may be more directly related to the Portuguese ` pequeno' than to ` pequenino', the source of ` pickaninny'.
Spicy pickled eggs, often prepared with jalapeno peppers is very popular in the Upper Peninsula in Michigan ; namely in the area around Michigan Technological University in Houghton.
Today they can be found at almost any bar in the area.
Carbondale : Southern Illinois University Press, 2005. p. 187.. They pursue certain things, avoid certain things, and have many different tactics in order to do both of these.
The George IV Inn, reputedly constructed in 1839, is considered to be one of the oldest hotel buildings in Australia.
The barn behind the hotel may date back to 1810 and is possibly the oldest building in Picton - it is used for functions such as birthday and engagement parties.
As such dairying and meat, fruit and vegetable processing and storage are relatively common.
There is a light industrial park in the town which has several modest manufacturing businesses making goods such as refrigeration products and filtered bottled water.
There are numerous quarrying operations located nearby which support this and other similar plants.
As these last sightings raised widespread interest, it seems probable after 1948, no pied raven has been seen.
Asti comune about 55 kilometres east of Turin in the plain of the Tanaro River and capital of Monferrato one of the most important wine district of the world.
Alba is the house of Ferrero 's chocolate factories and some mechanical industries.
Four major Interstate highways and numerous secondary Interstate routes and US routes serve the region : ; Interstate Highways \ n I-40, the primary east-west route across the region.
Like I-73, much of the route has yet to be constructed, but several disjointed segments are currently open and signed as either I-74 or `` FUTURE I-74 ''.
The older, southern segment consists of a former temporary alignment of I-85 that contains some non-freeway portions.
Essentially, the Piedmont is the remnant of several ancient mountain chains that have since been eroded away.
In 2006, Bruneau celebrated his 30 years of work for TVA and received several awards.
Many references credit him with 29 to 33 victories, although these probably include his `` ground '' kills.
Recent, more detailed analysis of his combat reports and squadron accounts indicate that his true score was 11 destroyed, with possibly another seven, for a total of 15-18 victories.Shores and Williams 1994, p. 180. Thomas 1999, p. 86.
Highlights from these first period are the Lambert 's Church in Veghel and the Catharina 's Church in Eindhoven, among others.
In this second part of his career he built some of his best work.
As popular as the Duhem-Quine thesis may be in the philosophy of science, in reality Pierre Duhem and Willard Van Orman Quine stated very different theses.
Also Duhem 's conception of theoretical group has its limits, since not all concepts are connected to each other logically.
Here the last sad chapter of his life opened promptly when he sided with some dissidents who opposed the introduction of new rules at the Accademia di San Luca which subjected non-members to great financial unjustice, and he was unceremoniously expelled.
The rich Roman art market was effectively closed for him and he had to settle for a few works outside, namely some statues for the Benedictine abbey at Monte Cassino -LRB- after the heavy bombing in World War II, only his 'Em peror Henry II' shows a reasonable degree of authenticity after restoration -RRB- and, without doubt due to the intervention of Juvarra who was by then architect to the Duke of Savoy, two female saints for the church of S. Cristina in Turin -LRB- now in the Cathedral -RRB-.
Magnol 's most important contribution to science is without doubt the invention of the concept of plant families, a natural classification, based on combinations of morphological characters, as set out in his ` Prodromus historiae generalis plantarum, in quo familiae plantarum per tabulas disponuntur' -LRB- 1689 -RRB- -LRB- See under major works -RRB-.
In Magnol 's day it was common belief that all species had come into existence by divine creation as set out in the Book of Genesis.
Nevertheless his work may be regarded as one of the first steps towards the composition of a tree of life.
Because there were many people upset over Pierce being allowed to remain on the team and keep his scholarship, two petitions totaling over 3,000 signatures were filed protesting the circumstances of the school 's handling of the case.
Quoted in the ` Detroit Free Press', December 11, 2003. Delacourt wrote, `` Same-sex marriage has generally been treated like a political `` tar baby ''' over the past few years, with most parties reluctant to whip up highly sensitive arguments touching on religion and deeply rooted social values.
In any case, prose comedy gained very little ground in popular favor before the time of Moliere.
His odes, which are very numerous, are also very interesting and in their best shape very perfect compositions.
In this latter kind he devised some exquisitely melodious rhythms of which, till our own day, the secret died with the 17th century.
Generally speaking, Ronsard is best in his amatory verse -LRB- the long series of sonnets and odes to Cassandre, Pikles, Marie, Genévre, Héléne -- Héléne de Surgeres, a later and mainly `` literary '' love -- etc. -RRB-, and in his descriptions of the country -LRB- the famous '' ` Mignonne allons voir si la rose', '' the '' ` Fontaine Bellerie', '' the '' ` Foret de Gastine', '' and so forth -RRB-, which have an extraordinary grace and freshness.
He knew well too how to manage the gorgeous adjectives -LRB- '' ` marbrine', '' '' ` cinabrine', '' '' ` ivoirine' '' and the like -RRB- which were another fancy of the Pléiade, and in his hands they rarely become stiff or cumbrous.
Van Maldere was educated as a violinist and composer, probably by the directors of the Brussels court chapel, Jean-Joseph Fiocco and Henri-Jacques de Croes.
Nothing could exceed the amiability of his private character ; so poor a man has rarely been so rich in good actions ; he was always ready to receive help from his friends when he was in need, and always forward to help others.
Some of Crowley 's marginal glosses and his passus summaries are clearly polemical, but there are very few glosses -LRB- and no passus summaries -RRB- in the first edition.
If she had failed to produce a suitably successful record, this would be her third and last album, most likely ending her singing career.
Shakira rewrote many of her old songs with new melodies along with her partner Luis F. Ochoa.
He glossed the top of a white metal stool in the same brilliant primary red he applied to the cardboard sheath he made for the radio-phonograph that spilled forth his beloved jazz from well-traveled records, Visitors to this last studio seldom saw more than one or two new canvases, but found, often to their astonishment, that eight large compositions of colored bits of paper he had tacked and re-tacked to the walls in ever-changing relationships constituted together an environment that, paradoxically and simultaneously, was both kinetic and serene, stimulating and restful.
Tragically, he was there for only a few months : he died of pneumonia in February 1944.
He spent some time in France and Italy, and then went to Antwerp, where in 1551 he was accepted as a master in the painter 's guild.
He received the nickname ` Peasant Bruegel' or ` Bruegel the Peasant' for his alleged practice of dressing up like a peasant in order to mingle at weddings and other celebrations, thereby gaining inspiration and authentic details for his genre paintings.
Both became painters, but as they were very young children when their father died, it is believed neither received any training from him.
It is certainly a better vehicle for a popular lyric soprano.
Orioli was an important artist within an often overlooked school of Italian Renaissance painting.
Stylistic he is similar to the contemporaries operating within his home city, as well as being related to the highly celebrated Florentine Botticelli, who he may have influenced.
His lack of fame can most likely be attributed to the fact that he appears to have worked chiefly within Siena alone, his premature death at the age of just 37 and the general ignorance of the outside world to Sienese painting in the renaissance.
They do less well with categories defined by abstract logical relationships, e.g. `` symmetrical '' or `` same '', though some experimenters have successfully trained pigeons to discriminate such categories.
Some wireless networking devices may not support the latest security mechanisms, and users must therefore leave their network unsecured.
A Pigovian tax is considered one of the `` traditional '' means of bringing a modicum of market forces, and thus better market efficiency, to economic situations where externality problems exist.
Pollution rights markets are not generally more efficient than Pigovian taxes but are often more appealing to policy makers because giving out the rights for free -LRB- or at less than market price -RRB- allows polluters to lose less profits or even gain profits -LRB- by selling their rights -RRB- relative to the unaltered market case.
He was the strongest bandurists in the group and probably the first to have played bandura in the group having initially converted the singers to bandurists and then initially teaching them.
He is thought by some to have been a KGB informer and had informed on V. Kabachok and caused his subsequent arrest.
I feel from the evidence shown to me that the informant was probably Pika and that he also informed on Kabachok in 1937 after their tour of the Combined Bandurist Capella to Leningrad -RRB-.
The Pokédex, in several games in the series, states that Pikachu forage for berries.
They are said to store electricity in their cheeks, and by simply squeezing them they can discharge sparks, lightning bolts, or other forms of electricity.
Thus, while ` P. barbarulna' was almost certainly not flightlessThe ulna lacks quill knobs ; this might be due to flightlessness, abrasion in the fossil, or fairly weak secondary remiges.
However, flamingos which fly well and have normally-developed secondaries also lack ulnar quill knobs -LRB- Varricchio 2002 -RRB-., it is most likely that it was a heavyset bird with comparatively small, rounded wings, in general body shape rather similar to a tinamou or galliform.
Close to the Pillars there are two isles, one of which they call Hera 's Island ; moreover, there are some who call also these isles the Pillars. ''.
It has been introduced into Australasia and North America and escaped from gardens and is considered an invasive species in some areas.
Typically, a pimp will not force prostitutes to `` be with him '', although some have been known to be abusive in order to keep their prostitutes submissive or to maximize profits.
A pimp may also offer to protect his prostitutes from rival pimps and prostitutes, or from abusive clients.
. -RSB- -RSB- A ` pincho' -LRB- Spanish ; literally, ` thorn' or ` spike' -RRB- or ` pintxo' -LRB- Basque -RRB- is the name of certain snacks typically eaten in bars, traditional in northern Spain and especially popular in the Basque country.
Originating in the Basque Country, they are usually eaten in bars or taverns as a small snack while hanging out with friends or relatives ; thus, they have a strong socializing component, and they are usually regarded as a cornerstone of Basque Culture and Society.
Pindar is one of the most famous Greek poets, one of the few whose works are still extant in sizeable part.
And the people of Irinjalakkuda celebrate pindiperunnal very happily.
And all the people will put up a pindi -LRB- Plantain -RRB- with some decorations in front of their home.
Bog iron was mined from bogs, streams, and waterways, and was worked in furnaces at Batsto, Lake Atsion, Ferrago, Hanover, and several other locations.
Recently, there has been significant talk of reintroducing the Black Bear into many parts of East Texas.
After some typically naughty behaviour in the bathroom by Pingu, including squirting the toothpaste on the mirror and making a fiendish shape from the pattern, they eventually get to bed.
Pingu is also initially scared by the shadow, but then realises that a mask and some other things have caused the shadow.
They both sit on Pingu 's bed and Pingu makes some shadows on the wall that Pinga enjoys.
After some thought Pingu does a shadow of Father and mimics him, which Pinga applauds.
Although there were rumors at the time about three of the mysterious individuals being actually Pulga, Ninzatti and Bonsanto themselves -LRB- with the fourth `` member '' being Massimo Noe -RRB-, this was never really confirmed or denied by anyone.
Its lead single, `` Get the Party Started '' -LRB- written and produced by Perry -RRB-, went top five in the U.S. and many other countries, and number one in Australia.
Often kept out of traditional blue and white collar jobs by physical requirements and prejudice, many women found ways to take their domestic skills into the world of paid work.
Greater wealth in industrialized nations also means that more money is spent on the services provided by pink collar positions.During the twentieth century, with some ups and downs within the culture and different degrees of change in different countries, there has been less separation between men 's and women 's jobs.
Pinot gris is a bud sport of Pinot noir, presumably representing a somatic mutation in either the VvMYBA1 or VvMYBA2 genes that control grape colour.
Pinot blanc may represent a further mutation of Pinot gris.
Heloir, and D. Merdinoglu -LRB- 2004 -RRB- ` Genome' 47 : 579 -- 589A more recent white grape sport was propagated in 1936 by Henri Gouges of Burgundy, and there is now 2.5 ha planted of this grape which Clive Coates Clive Coates, ` Cote D'Or' -LRB- 1997 -RRB- pp. 144 and 457 calls ` Pinot Gouges', and others call ` Pinot Musigny'.
The first set of auditions were held in late 2007 in several key cities in the Philippines, as well as the cities of Madrid, Milan, and Dubai.
The second set of auditions for this season, as well as for the third Teen Edition, were held exclusively in several key cities in the Philippines.
It remains to be known how many of them would actually enter the House.
They are one of the main crops for many animals.
The Mexican Jay is also important for the dispersal of some pinyon species as, less often, is the Clark 's Nutcracker.
Many other species of animal also eat pinyon nuts, without dispersing them.
A statue of Saint Pio in Messina, Sicily attracted attention in 2002 when it allegedly wept tears of blood.
Padre Pio has become one of the world 's most popular saints.
Pioneering is a common merit badge in many countries, and was required for Eagle in the 1920s and 1930s.
It is believed that de Mas used a daguerreotype camera in 1841.
Although it is believed that the first photography studios were opened in the Philippines in the 1850s, the first known actively operational photo studio was that of the British photographer Albert Honnis.
Nawat is one of many languages possessing such items and the associated patterns, which in this case are ` expressive' verb formations.
Some at least are probably onomatopoeic in origin.
In actuality the book was written after the death of Akhund Darweza and after some considerable time, since it refers to Pir Roshan in past tense and even misspells even the word Roshan.
Furthermore, many privateers exceeded the bounds of their letters of marque by attacking nations with which their sovereign was at peace -LRB- Thomas Tew and William Kidd are notable examples -RRB-, and thus made themselves liable to conviction for piracy.
Piracy saw a brief resurgence between the end of the War of the Spanish Succession in 1713 and around 1720, as many unemployed seafarers took to piracy as a way to make ends meet when a surplus of sailors after the war led to a decline in wages and working conditions.
It is suspected that the language 's entire pronoun set, which is the simplest of any known language, was recently borrowed from one of the Tupí-Guaraní languages, and that prior to that the language may have had no pronouns whatsoever.
Many linguists, however, find this claim questionable, noting that there is no historical-comparative evidence indicating the non-existence of pronouns in a previous period of the history of Piraha.
It is true that there are few Tupi-Guarani loanwords in areas of the lexicon more susceptible to borrowing -LRB- such as nouns referring to cultural items, for instance -RRB-, though there are some for different types of flora and fauna -LRB- which itself may indicate that the Piraha did not originate in their current location -RRB-.
Historically most of the stations have opposed, in some manner, the political establishment represented by the Chinese Nationalist Party and the Republic of China -LRB- ROC -RRB- framework, in favour of the then opposition movement broadly consisting of the Democratic Progressive Party -LRB- DPP -RRB- and allied social movements.
A few stations positioned themselves on the opposing end of the political spectrum, generally favouring the ROC status quo advocated by the New Party and `` non-mainstream factions '' within the Nationalist Party.
Station would run several hours to all night.
Most of the music played on the station fell under a CHR or Top 40 format with some occasional 80s and 90 's hits.
Using publicity stunts and public demonstrations at large music concerts to gain supporters, The RPMRADIO Network brought the first pirate radio broadcasts to an area that was considered `` the garden of eden '' of radio markets, and caused a minor revolution in the programing practices of radio broadcasters in that area.
When they finally received their first notice to quit from the FCC, the station operators went underground, and continue to operate several `` Low Power Pirate FM Stations '' throughout the area.
It is possible that operations may resume soon on the same frequency with the same name, and a slightly tweaked format.
The ` Black Swan' is a reference to a character from Crimson Skies, and also possibly to the ship Black Pearl from Pirates of the Caribbean.
Later print runs changed the booster pack wrapper artwork and seem to have addressed some of these quality issues, but the cardstock and inks used in this set are still notably inferior to other sets.
Collectors are warned that many of these cards are `` Mint as issued '', aka issued damaged from the factory.
Piritramide was discovered at Janssen Pharmaceutica in 1960 and is currently manufactured and distributed within continental Europe and some other places by Janssen-Cilag.
There can be little doubt that the Pisidians and Pamphylians were the same people, but the distinction between the two seems to have been established at an early period.
Pisidia remained a wild, mountainous region, and one of the most difficult for outside powers to rule.
Harlow wrote, `` most subjects typically assume a hunched position in a corner of the bottom of the apparatus.
Period of pit structure occupation is generally during the cold season.
This is probably due to their thermal efficiency.
An alternative etymology traces the word to a cognate for pine pitch, which forms flat layers that may resemble pita bread, which in turn may share an etymological origin with pizza -LRB- Italian for `` pie '' -RRB-.
Indeed in some parts of southern Italy, there are pastries called Pita, which are filled with spicy fruit and nuts.
However, Misha sacrifices herself by making some kind of medicine that made people forget her, and remember Shia.
Most breaking balls are considered off-speed pitches.
Manda Pitha' : It is a steamed pitha made from rice flour.It may have a grated coconut and jaggery/sugar filling or a cottage chese -LRB- ` chenna' -RRB- filling.'.
It is believed that these serve the birds as a chemical defence, either against ectoparasites or against visually guided predators such as snakes, raptors or humans.
-LRB- Dumbacher, ` et al.', 1992 -RRB- The birds probably do not produce batrachotoxin themselves.
It is most likely that the toxins come from the ` Choresine' genus of beetles, part of the bird 's diet.
A pitot-static system generally consists of a pitot tube, a static port, and the pitot-static instruments.
Other instruments that might be connected are air data computers, flight data recorders, altitude encoders, cabin pressurization controllers, and various airspeed switches.
Stylistically and technically, they probably represent rather low quality panel paintings of their time.
Such simple votives may have been far more numerous originally, but the fact that they are made of perishable materials, whereas richer votives were of stone, bronze or precious metals, has led to their near-total disappearance from the archaeological record.
As befits a main stand, this section of the ground includes both padded seating for club officials and VIP 's, and several executive boxes at the rear.
The genus is probably Gondwanan in origin ; its present range extends from Australasia, Oceania, eastern Asia and some parts of Africa.
` Citriobatus' is usually included here, but might be a distinct -LRB- though closely related -RRB- genus.
They are commonly known as ` pittosporums' or, more ambiguously,' `` cheesewoods '''.
The dialect has some tonal similarities to other nearby regional dialects -LRB- ie, Erie, Baltimore -RRB-, but is noted for its somewhat staccato rhythms.
It also has so many local peculiarities that the ` New York Times' described Pittsburgh as, `` the Galapagos Islands of American dialect ''.
Eventually, the board agreed to move the Center to the Ridge Avenue building, where the program existed for several years.
Some people still suspect that the School Board is still considering closing the Center and it is unclear whether renovations to the Ridge Avenue building will be completed before the next school year.
-LRB- The old terminal remained standing for some years after, continuing to house a few operations offices ; it was demolished in 1999. -RRB-.
The airport 's capacity is one of its most valuable assets.
A model to other airports around the world, the design of the terminal was planned to simplify aircraft movement on the airfield and ease pedestrian traffic to the gates.
His second season duplicated that success, repeating an 8-0 record while collectively outscoring opponents 255-25, and garnering what is widely regarded as a consensus national championship.
The lone scare of the 1916 season occurred at Navy when, following a delay of the team 's train heading to Annapolis that caused a late arrival, the team overcame several fumbles and eked out a 20-19 victory.
Also on that team were Jock Sutherland and H.C. `` Doc '' Carlson, who both would garner First Team All-American selections while members of the undefeated 1917 team, and go on to become perhaps Pitt 's most legendary coaches in football and basketball, respectively.
The final game of the season at Cleveland Naval Reserve resulted in Warner 's first loss at Pitt and is one of the most controversial in school history.
Warner, along some reporters covering the game, insisted the Pitt team was robbed by the officials who, claiming the official timekeeper 's watch was broken, arbitrarily ended the first half before Pitt was able to score and then allowed the Reserves extra time in the fourth quarter to pull ahead 10-9 before calling an end to the game.
Despite the loss, the 4-1 Panthers of 1918 were named national champions by several selectors and are widely regarded as consensus national champions for that season.
The Post-Gazette would begin delivering the Trib to most of the area with some exceptions.
Many of those papers were several decades old.
The communities served by those titles will now be served by other Gateway newspapers.
After 2 years the starting group was not very successful at raising the required funds and in 1877 many of the directors were succeeded by a new group of Pittsburgh businessmen.
The Louisiana Pine Snake is generally associated with sandy, well-drained soils ; open pine forests, especially Longleaf Pine savanna ; moderate to sparse midstory ; and a well-developed herbaceous understory dominated by grasses.
This release was created by Surfoleon, and edited by Pyrotic, who made some much-needed changes to the interface and mechanical workings of the program.
It is covered by a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-No Derivative Works 3.0 Unported License, amongst many other Creative Commons licenses -LRB- unlike it 's precursor -RRB-, but declares on its site that it is ` Wikipedia Compatible' and is -LRB- rather vaguely -RRB- covered by the GFDL.
Some gameplay modes include : \ n'Speed Monkey', in which the player has to avoid and overtake as many cars as possible.
All ` pizmonim' can be classified under different ` maqams' -LRB- musical modes -RRB-, of which there are about ten in common use.
` Maqam Ajam', which sounds a little like a Western major scale, is the thematic ` maqam' that contains many holiday melodies.
` Maqam Hijaz', which corresponds to the Phrygian dominant scale, is the thematic ` maqam' that contains many sad melodies.
` Maqam Sikah' -LRB- or ` Siga' -RRB-, containing many three-quarter-tone intervals, is used for the cantillation of the Torah.
` Lazio style' : Pizza in Lazio -LRB- Rome -RRB-, as well as in many other parts of Italy, is available in two different styles : -LRB- 1 -RRB- Take-away shops sell ` pizza rustica' or ` pizza al taglio'.
Pizzerias, such as Canada 's Pizza Pizza chain, will incorporate a time guarantee or a promise delivery within a predetermined period of time, perhaps specifying that late deliveries will be free of charge.
Now, pizzerias will commonly state to the customer an approximate time frame for a delivery, without making any guarantees as to the actual delivery time.
It is known to be one of the oldest cookies, and is believed to have developed from the ancient Roman ` crustulum'. Prodottitipici.com, ''.
Although the placenta is revered in many cultures, very few customarily eat the placenta after the newborn 's birth.
A variety of recipes are known to exist for preparing placenta for eating in spite of the extended taboo against eating human body parts.
In earlier times the process water was not generally recycled and the spent ore was not reclaimed.
The author was a Procurator in the region and so probably witnessed large-scale hydraulic mining of the placer deposits there.
It comprises many areas for the nomadic mountain people to camp in, stay for a while, then leave again.
There are a number of beautiful gardens which are tended by everyone in the city.Among the permanent buildings in the mountain capital is the palace, home of the Sacrifice of the Mountain Kingdom.
This was made - or rather, ` grown' - by selecting a central tree, and planting several saplings around it.
It took some measures against the plague and provided citizens with work and food, which would finally pacify the people of Moscow.
This meant that many people died alone because no one was willing to risk caring for them.
It is commonly assumed that children and adults prefer trashy stories in large measure because they are more exciting and more stimulating in respect to sex.
There is, however, reason to believe that greater ease of reading in respect to vocabulary, construction, and facts, is a very important cause of preference.
These approaches, among several others, are being considered to gain insight into Planck scale dynamics.
Several characters in the game may join The Nameless One on his journey, most of whom have encountered him in the past.
Jupiter 's axial tilt is very small, so its seasonal variation is minimal ; Uranus, on the other hand, has an axial tilt so extreme it is virtually on its side, which means that its hemispheres are either perpetually in sunlight or perpetually in darkness around the time of its solstices.
Among extrasolar planets, axial tilts are not known for certain, though most hot Jupiters are believed to possess negligible to no axial tilt, as a result of their proximity to their stars.
While some creatures, such as the dromedary, take them in their stride, for others the only escape from such bombardments is to bury themselves in the sand.
The final sequence illustrates one of nature 's most fearsome spectacles : a billion-strong plague of desert locusts, destroying all vegetation in its path.
For related reasons, some planetariums show stars below the horizon projecting on the walls below the dome or on the floor, or -LRB- with a bright star or a planet -RRB- shining in the eyes of someone in the audience.
Scientists considered the possibility that particular areas of galaxies -LRB- galactic habitable zones -RRB- are better suited to life than others ; the solar system in which we live, in the Orion Spur, on the Milky Way galaxy 's edge is considered to be in a life-favorable spot : \ n It is not in a globular cluster where immense star densities are inimical to life, given excessive radiation and gravitational disturbance.
A supermassive black hole is also believed to lie at the middle of the galaxy which might prove a danger to any nearby bodies. \ n The circular orbit of the Sun around the galactic centre keeps it out of the way of the galaxy 's spiral arms where once more intense radiation and gravitation may lead to disruption.'.
The creators of Planetboredom.net have opened up many websites over the years, which have come together to form the PlanetBoredom Network.
Most of these websites have a small user base, and are clones of some of the functions of planetboredom.net, like the database of videos.
Amongst the most notable of these websites are Smash Our Stuff and TorontoForums.
In the anime, several characters were introduced in order to add its criticism of salaryman culture.
Some of these characters are portrayed only to seek to climb the corporate ladder, however unlikely it may be.
This fact makes several characters lose sight of the importance of their job, however lowly others might see it.
At the same time, several characters are introduced who seek to work within the system in order to make a difference.Planetes Ep. 26 : Having expanded his influence within Technora Corporation, Dolf decides to defy the board in favor of steering the company towards the ideals he started out with.
Since the 1970s, and the discovery of Chiron, some astrologers have been casting the new `` planet '', although astronomers consider it a comet.
As pointed out by Kenneth Arrow and others, the existence of firms in free markets shows that there is a need for firms in free markets ; opponents of planned economies would simply argue that there is no need for a sole firm for the entire economy.
Some people will reset the ICs in the battery pack, and obtain almost their original runtime on the battery -LRB- minus the natural decay the battery cells -RRB-, only to have to do it again in the future because the IC ran down the limit.
As in many collecting hobbies, rarer specimens have been valued.
This has led in some cases to a collector voluntarily taking part, helping scientists, in some research areas, provided he can store the `` collectible ''.
In fact, historically, many species have initially been found within a collection of a collector.
Mutations in this gene give rise to the floral meristem obtaining an indeterminate fate, and many floral organs keep on getting produced.
Several studies on diverse plants like petunia, tomato, Impatiens, maize etc have suggested that the enormous diversity of flowers is a result of small changes in genes controlling their development.
Consequently, this new state contained a sizable Catholic minority, some of whom claimed to be descendants of those dispossessed in the Plantations.
The Troubles in Northern Ireland are therefore in some respects a continuation of the conflict arising from the plantations.
With internet culture rising to prominence in Hong Kong, there emerges a habit where netizens simply do not participate in Internet events, feuds and arguments, which are at many times considered plain silly, but just watch as the `` show '' goes on.
Plasmoids can interact with each other, seemingly by reflecting off one another.
There is some scant evidence to support the hypothesis that they undergo fission and possess spin.
Bare mud-and-tape drywall is generally only acceptable as a final decorating finish in utility spaces such as attics or garages.
Because bare plaster can be appealing to the touch, and paint would add an additional layer, some decorators opt to leave exposed plaster in some or all of a room, as a creative choice.
As a result of experiments to ascertain its strength as compared with Substitutes that of other materials, it was found that plaster for hair slabs made with Manila hemp fiber broke at, plaster mixed with Sisal hemp at, jute at, and goats' hair at.
In some cases the steel plate is let into a stock or handle of hardwood.
In many cases however, it is important for a product to meet certain specifications, and cost could then be measured in price per unit of a property.
Price with respect to processibility is often important, as some materials need to be processed at very high temperatures, increasing the amount of cooling time a part needs.
Significant progress was made in the 1960s, and was prompted by a number of discoveries, most notably the Mid-Atlantic ridge.
The most notable was the 1962 publication of a paper by American geologist Harry Hammond Hess -LRB- Robert S. Dietz published the same idea one year earlier in ` Nature'.
Some argue that many modern 3D platformers, especially those influenced heavily by ` Mario 64' are not platformers at all, or at least are not really an extension of 2D platformers.
` Super Mario 64' brought a change in the goals of some platformers.
In most 2D platformers, the player only had to reach a single goal to complete a level, but in many 3D platformers, each level had to be combed for collectible items such as puzzle pieces -LRB- ` Banjo-Kazooie' -RRB- or stars -LRB- ` Super Mario 64' -RRB-.
The guest software is not limited to user applications ; many hosts allow the execution of complete operating systems.
The guest software executes as if it were running directly on the physical hardware, with several notable caveats.
The light sensitive chemicals are mixed from powdered basic chemicals, or some commercially available solutions, then hand applied with a brush or a cylindrical `` pusher ''.
Many artists achieve varying effects by choosing different papers for different surface characteristics, including vellum, rag, and rice, among others - even silk.
This might be the reason for the unexplained disappearance of a building of local significance -LRB- sometimes referred to as a castle -RRB- which was independently documented by several sources in the early 17th century but was gone by the 1670s, apparently without leaving permanent traces.
It has been suggested that the building became a victim of the Diendorf fault, but it is also possible that it was destroyed by invading Swedish troops during the final phase of the Thirty Years' War : in 1645, the headquarters for Swedish army operations in Lower Austria had been established in the immediate vicinity, at the castle of Schrattenthal.
Low Platypus numbers in northern Australia are possibly due to predation by crocodiles.
The introduction of red foxes as a predator for rabbits may have had some impact on its numbers on the mainland.
The Platypus is generally regarded as nocturnal and crepuscular, but individuals are also active during the day, particularly when the sky is overcast.
The most famous Plautdietsch writer, Arnold Dyck, wrote in the Molotschna dialect, though his origins were from the Old Colony.
While some of Moby 's earlier work garnered critical and commercial success within the electronic dance music scene, ` Play' was his first true pop success.
It is in fact possible to replace the NES PPU with the PlayChoice-10 PPU, allowing it to output RGB natively.
Naturally, the Net Yaroze lacked many of the features the full developer suite provided.
A number of third-party exclusives were also shown, including ` Haze', ` Unreal Tournament 3' and the highly-anticipated ` Metal Gear Solid 4 : Guns of the Patriots', alongside other high-profile third-party titles such as ` Grand Theft Auto 4', ` Call of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare', ` Assassin 's Creed', ` Devil may Cry 4' and ` Resident Evil 5'.
Dueling is often considered an inferior and less challenging form of PvP by the more hardcore PvP communities.
This is widely considered to be the fairest way of deciding a winner, as one bad shot does not eliminate all chances of winning, and is used in two of the four men 's major championships.
It is among his greatest and most popular song.
The song was praised by critics on release.
It also among his best chart performing song.
It is known as among the greatest power ballad ever.
Business in Bean 's funfair was tight, and shortly afterward Bean dismantled the property and moved to Blackpool which was at the time -LRB- and remains to this day as -RRB- the busiest and most popular seaside resort in the United Kingdom.
However, the approach of the film was described by other critics as `` characterized by a unique tenderness. ''.
In many cases of semantic pleonasm, the status of a word as pleonastic depends on context.
In fact, many examples of redundant expressions are not inherently redundant, but can be redundant if used one way, and are not redundant if used another way.
Many other examples of pleonasm are redundant only if the speaker 's knowledge is taken into account.
Experiments have shown that they can lose almost all their free water and remain alive - up to 97 %, though more typically they only lose around 76 % in dry spells -LRB- Moran 2004 -RRB-.
George White -LRB- c. 1684-1732 -RRB- was taught by his father, and finished some of his fathers plates.
Plural noun phrases can refer to several things.
It is found on rotten logs, roots and tree stumps and is widely distributed.
Being very variable in appearance, it has been divided into several varieties or subspecies, some of which are sometimes considered species in their own right.
It seems that there was, as with almost every decision in the colony, a theological reason for fostering children.
Today, PCC is owned by its 300 + members and is regarded as one of the finest courses in Massachusetts.
PCC hosts the annual Hornblower Memorial tournament -LRB- now in its 5th decade -RRB-, which draws some of the best amateur players from across New England and the Northeast.
It is most widely known for its successes in men 's football, basketball, and soccer, and women 's field hockey, swimming and diving, and volleyball.
, one of Plymouth 's many beaches -RSB- -RSB- Plymouth has many distinct geographical features.
The complete life-cycles of any of the species of ` Pneumocystis' are not known, but presumably all resemble the others in the genus.
The trophozoite stage is thought to be equivalent to the so-called vegetative state of other species -LRB- such as ` Schizosaccharomyces pombe' -RRB- which, like ` Pneumocystis' belong to the Taphrinomycotina branch of the fungal kingdom.
It is not known for certain if meiosis takes place within the cysts, or what the genetic status is of the various cell types.
It is unstable and therefore must be prepared shortly before use, which has possibly led to the lower efficacy shown in some clinical trials.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania : University of Pennsylvania, -LRB- 2003 -RRB-, ISBN 0812213246. Irish poetry also employed rhyme relatively early, and may have influenced the development of rhyme in other European languages.
Some people would experience numerous relationships and the obligations they entail as something entangling, binding, or limiting.
She seems to be very much at ease in this situation, so much so that she and those around her are only likely to be aware of their bounds and limits in unusual circumstances.
They did n't changed anything in their badges except if they did some offence and were forced to change the heraldic sign on the shield.
The oldest son inherited thecoat of arms of family in West Europe, and must to add some special changes in it.Four versions of coat of arms Pogonia are known in heraldry.They are different in color of shield.
In prehistoric times, a people of Mongolian stock in all probability had first settled along the Southern California coast in areas where oak trees were plentiful, from which characteristic they had been called `` The Oak Tree -LRB- Grove -RRB- People ''.
They vanished some hundreds of years before the beginning of the Christian era, and after a period yielding no archaeological remains, a second group, also probably Mongolian in origin and semi -- nomadic in habits arrived.
But despite these large, old trees, the forest may nevertheless be a result of European settlement.
It is because of this method of diverting the image into the viewfinder that pictures can not be previewed on the LCD screens of most digital SLRs, although some manufacturers have found a way around this limitation.
Poitín was generally produced in remote rural areas, away from the interference of the law.
Traditional style Hunter Semillons in particular have produced some of Australia 's most distinctive whites with 20 plus years ageing in the bottle not uncommon.
There are many excellent quality restaurants where visitors can eat well and try local wines.A list of attractions in the Pokolbin region : \ n Wineries. \ n Pokolbin village. \ n Hunter Valley Gardens.
In 1485, Moldavian prince Stephen the Great, after losing in the previous year his country 's exit to the Black Sea to the Ottomans, was in serious need of alliances, and swore allegiance to Casimir IV Jagiellon, King of Poland for Pokuttia, in what is known as the ` Colomeea oath'. Popular culture has it that Casimir ordered the tent in which the oath was taking place to be uncovered at a moment 's notice, so as to present Stephen on his knees in front of the latter 's nobles and escort.
It is said that Stephen, renowned for his religious piety, quickly turned towards an icon and crossed himself, in order not to appear undignified in front of his men.
In addition to this, the fact that many animated sequences can not be bypassed was found to be annoying, particularly when the player has already seen them or is familiar with them.
The games received generally favorable reviews.
Most critics praised the addition of Wi-Fi features and felt that the gameplay, though it had not received much updating from previous games, was still engaging.
Reviewers were divided on the graphics, however ; and the audio was criticized as being primitive.
A few people even had seizures, blindness, convulsions, and lost consciousness,.
Although many victims recovered during the ambulance trip, more than 150 of them were admitted to hospitals.
Some other people had seizures when parts of the scene were rebroadcast during news reports on the seizures.
After being berated by Mewtwo for the relationships they share with their Pokémon, Ash and some of the other trainers challenge Mewtwo, who pits their Pokémon against clones of Venusaur, Blastoise, and Charizard, which easily defeat the trainers' Pokémon.
Despite the wide publicity she attracted, many of Valentino 's friends stated that Valentino and Negri had not intended to marry, and dismissed her actions as a publicity stunt.
Actress Tallulah Bankhead, in particular, badmouthed Negri, although others such as Mary Pickford -LRB- supportive and generous to so many troubled actresses of the time -RRB- and Valentino 's brother, Alberto, defended her.
As of that time and in the following decades this region, plus some of the Greater Poland, Lower Silesia and some areas west of the middle and lower Oder River make up the Sukow-Dziedzice group.
When sea ice is unavailable during summer and early autumn, some populations live off fat reserves for months at a time.
In the summer the top of the permafrost may be covered with water due to melting in the area -LRB- Stonehouse, 69 -RRB-.
Advocates and practitioners of PT claim that a subtle, invisible and intangible energetic system is the substrate for all phenomena.
Further, they claim that blockages in the flow of energy lead to pain and disease -LRB- directly contradicting the germ theory of disease -RRB-, or be experienced as stuck emotions and lack of vitality.
They claim that this is similar to the measurable and quantifiable electromagnetic bond between electron and proton that forms atoms, a claim which is not scientific, but pseudoscience.
Another possible association is with the `` three-grayned staff '' ` Grayned' meaning ` bladed' listed as being in the armoury of Henry VIII in 1547Norman & Wilson -LRB- 1982 -RRB-, op.cit -LRB- though the same list also features 84 rawcons, suggesting the weapons were not identical in 16th. century English eyes -RRB-.
Accessed 2008-01-25 Estimates vary depending on source, though available data suggests a total number around 60 million people worldwide -LRB- with approx. 21 million living outside of Poland -RRB-.
The Gendarmerie is the direct descendant of the Marshalcy of the ancien regime, more commonly known by its French title, the Maréchaussée.
The marshalcy dates back to the Hundred Years War, and some historians trace it back to the early twelfth century.
During the revolutionary period, marshalcy commanders generally placed themselves under the local constitutional authorities.
In the Philippines, the ` Philippine National Police' has many incidents of Police brutality against the people whom they arrest or investigate.
In some cases, instead of inviting a person for questioning and that particular person refuses, they arrest them without a warrant for the reason of obstruction of justice.
Also in some cases, the officials of the Philippine National Police abuse their privilege to use force to induce psychological intimidation against a group or an individual as revenge due to a previous incident of the latter.
Although most forces once wore blue shirts, these have been less used since the 1980s -LRB- when the Metropolitan Police changed to white -RRB- and most now wear white.
Officers of the rank of Inspector and above have always worn white shirts, and in many forces so have female officers.
In some forces, female officers wear a black and white checked cravat instead of a tie.
The high school debate tournament generally considered to be the national circuit championship is the Tournament of Champions held at the University of Kentucky.
For non-national circuit debaters the national championship is generally considered to be the national tournament of their sponsoring organization, either \ n \ nthe National Speech and Debate Tournament of the National Forensic League or \ n \ nthe Grand National Tournament of the National Catholic Forensic League or the NCFCA.
This tournament is generally viewed as a precursor national tournament to the TOC, because the same teams generally qualify to both tournaments.
However, recent opposition to vaccination campaigns has evolved, often relating to fears that the vaccine might induce sterility.
The disease has since resurged in Nigeria and in several other African nations, which epidemiologists cite is due to refusals by certain local populations to allow their children to receive the polio vaccine.
Many notable individuals have survived polio and often credit the prolonged immobility and residual paralysis associated with polio as a driving force in their lives and careers.
But the conflict was never fully dragged into the US-Soviet dynamics like many other conflicts.
Morocco was firmly entrenched in the US camp, whereas Algeria aligned generally with the Soviet Union during the 1970s, and took a more independent `` third-worldist '' position after that.
Many popular Polish foods became a fixture in the American cuisine of today, including kiełbasa -LRB- Polish sausage -RRB-, babka cake, kaszanka -LRB- kasanzka -RRB- and pierogi, among many.
After the third partition of Poland, many Jacobins emigrated and joined the Polish Legions in Italy.
Many of those who remained in Poland took part in various conspirational organisations -LRB- Association of Polish Republicans, ` Towarzystwo Republikanów Polskich' -RRB-.
Eventually some prominent Jacobins -LRB- like Józef Zajączek -RRB- became part of the government of the Duchy of Warsaw and later Congress Poland -RRB-.
It contained several parts based solely on racial and ethnic category of the person subject to trial.
Until the 18th century they were considered the elite of the Polish armed forces.
Because of the fame and prestige that surrounded the hussars, many of them were members of the nobility -LRB- szlachta -RRB-.
Between 1939-1945, 312,000 - 380,000 VIS pistols were produced and used by the German paratroopers and police. The Radom was very accurate, stable and generally regarded as one of the best military pistols of that period.
After the war the Soviet TT-33 pistol, considered by many to be inferior to the Vis.
It was probably the only kind of modern firearm that could be manufactured in the forest without the need for sophisticated tools and factory equipment during the Second World War.
It was used extensively by the American Army and was nicknamed the ` walkie-talkie'. \ n The Polish Home Army was probably the only World War II resistance movement to manufacture large quantities of weaponry and munitions.
Some of elected ones resigned while the others refused.
Polish legal experts maintained that by submitting their statements on the same day, Gronkiewicz-Waltz had observed the spirit, even if not the letter of the law.
On Tuesday, March 13, 2007, Poland 's Constitutional Tribunal ruled against the governing Law and Justice -LRB- PiS -RRB- party and struck down the controversial law that threatened her and many other public officials.
It is also possible, though rare, for the husband to adopt his wife 's surname or to add his wife 's surname to his family name.
There are many other differences between the two breeds, such as coat structure and colors.
Retrieved February 14, 2006. and several Cossack uprisings.
In the west and north, many cities had sizable German minorities, often belonging to Reformed churches.
In next year a full war with the Ottoman Empire was close -LRB- according to one source, the sultan created a huge army, according to others, it was just near its creation -RRB-, however the sultan suffered from another failure : his vassal, khan of Crimea Canibek II -LRB- Janibek, Dzhanibek -RRB-, had decided that he preferred to attack Muscovy.
The term refers to a species of monkey, and is regarded by some as an ethnic slur.
The media attention has been widely cited as a key reason why Senator Allen was defeated by now-Senator Jim Webb.
For many African Americans, `` consciousness '' has meant identifying and discrediting forms of White supremacy, including those internalized by Blacks.
Does, for example, a Black woman person lack consciousness because she generally supports a system run mostly by White male capitalists ?.
Counties in many states are further subdivided into townships - which, by definition, are administrative divisions of a county.
In some states, such as Michigan, a township can file a charter with the state government, making itself into a `` charter township '', which is a type of mixed municipal and township status -LRB- giving the township some of the rights of a city without all of the responsibilities -RRB-, much in the way a metropolitan municipality is a mixed municipality and county.
Joseph Wheeler, a former Confederate major general and postwar Congressman from Alabama, who is considered to have been one of the finest cavalry officers of the Civil War.
Most commonly, science fiction deals with the political fallout of its own premises.
Merging the administrative machineries of each state and integrating them into one political and administrative entity was not easy, particularly as many of the merged states had a history of rivalry.
In the 1930s, James A. Farley was the chief dispenser of the Democratic Party 's patronage system through the Postal Department and the Works Progress Administration -LRB- WPA -RRB- which eventually nationalized many of the job benefits machines provided.
His plan involves several tactics.
He believes Putin is probably `` being set up '' for the poisoning of Alexander Litvinenko, and that Litvenko 's death was likely either a suicide or the work of one of Putin 's enemies trying to `` put a cloud of suspicion over Putin and a chill over Russian relations with the West. ''.
Perhaps, the best known definition comes from the late Michel Foucault, whose work in ` Discipline and Punish' -LRB- and other writings -RRB- conveys a view of power that is organic within society.
Barzilai has explored that neo-liberal globalization has failed to subdue the nation-state and some of the significant political power is still embedded in state political elite.
Unlike a unitary state, sovereignty is constitutionally split between at least two territorial levels so that units at each level have final authority and can act independently of the others in some area.
Certain leisure or cultural activities may also be mandated to reinforce some aspect of loyalty or the state ideology.
#Earl Brian, the CEO of UPI and FNN, was later convicted on fraud charges specific to UPI and FNN ; however his possible involvement in both the October Surprise Conspiracy and the Inslaw Affair may have contributed to Congressional investigations of the Iran-Contra Affair.
#Edwin Meese -LRB- R -RRB- - During confirmation hearings for his position as Attorney General, it was learned that his wife had received several `` sweetheart loans '' for the purchase of stock in companies owned by Earl Brian #D.
That It could be a statement, part of a dialogue, or a depiction of some action.
It may be observed that along with Nehru, Bose had organized and led protest marches against the Japanese invasion of Manchuria in 1931, and of China itself in 1938, when he was Congress president.
But could not all this have been achieved without Imperialism, without dismembering the Chinese Republic, without humiliating another proud, cultured and ancient race ?.
American commentator ` Bill O'Reilly' regularly expresses his point of view on a wide variety of political, social, and moral issues.
The ` The O'Reilly Factor', since its inception on the Fox News Channel in 1996, has been the primary outlet of his opinions.
Gbagbo was elected president in 2000 in an election boycotted bt many oppositional forces.
Post-independence politics came to be dominated by Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara and the Alliance Party, which commanded the support of the traditional Fijian chiefs, along with leading elements of the European and part-European communities, and some Indo-Fijians.
A short-lived constitutional crisis developed after the parliamentary election of March 1977, when the Indian-led National Federation Party -LRB- NFP -RRB- won a narrow majority of seats in the House of Representatives, but failed to form a government due to internal leadership problems, as well as concerns among some of its members that indigenous Fijians would not accept Indo-Fijian leadership.
The relative strengths of the parties vary only slightly in the elections due to the proportional election from multi-member districts but there are some visible long-term trends.
This is apparently part of a strategy aimed at the forcible relocation of Arabs to other areas while facilitating the transfer of non-Arabs into Khuzestan and is linked to economic policies such as zero interest loans which are not available to local Arabs.
Sporadic violence and considerable economic disruption continued until July 2002 when Ratsiraka and several of his prominent supporters fled to exile in France.
During most of the civil war the government was unable to exercise effective control outside of urban areas, many of which were cut off from the capital.
An estimated one million Mozambicans perished during the civil war, 1.7 million took refuge in neighboring states, and several million more were internally displaced.
His death, along with several advisers, in a suspicious plane crash in 1986 interrupted progress.
He supports many of Mikhail Bakunin 's anarchist -LRB- or libertarian socialist -RRB- ideas.
He has said that contrary to what many in America claim, the collapse of the Soviet Union should be regarded as `` a small victory for socialism, '' not capitalism.Chomsky was also impressed with socialism as practiced in Vietnam.
The subsequent Shepardson Commission of Inquiry was widely expected to destroy the government.
Beattie immediately undertook a purge, taking the opportunity to dispatch several factional enemies, and promised a `` cleanskin '' approach.
Russia did not declare its independence, and Yeltsin continued to hope that some form of confederation could be established.
The CIS states also agreed that Russia initially would take over Soviet embassies and other properties abroad.
As such, independence groups and many foreign observers are critical of the PRC 's ethnic policies, considering reality to be markedly different from the image presented by the PRC.
The absent male host was in fact the actor in the Polkaroo costume, and though some sources have claimed that an uncredited third actor played the role, that was not the case.
This is a contrast to Polish-American and Slovenian-American bands, which generally do not object to the term `` polka band ''.
However, when one considers that the price of energy in Bermuda is 6.3 times as high as it is in the USA -LRB- a function of Bermuda having no domestic energy source -RRB-, that there is no natural resource or heavy industry to provide supplemental heat, and that with a population of only 65,000 the plant could not utilize economies of scale, it seems probable that costs could exceed $ 25,000 per acre foot -LRB- 7.5 cents per gallon -RRB- -LRB- See domestic energy prices offered by.
Future of the Pashto film industry seems to be bright as there are still some people who want to do something for the betterment of the industry.
The standard was quite good and people liked the movie.This is to correct the record pertaining the pashto film Kala khazan kala bahar, its hero was Hmayun qureshi and Not Aman.
Conventional wisdom holds that because no two people wrap with exactly the same tension, the same person should wrap the right and left legs.
Many other products -LRB- for example, guitars -RRB- are sometimes made with acrylic glass to make the commonly opaque objects translucent.
The blood vessels themselves are contractile, helping to push the blood along, so most species have no need of a heart.
Conversely, some species have little or no circulatory system at all, transporting oxygen in the coelomic fluid that fills their body cavity.
Thus, these were women with significant fertility problems, and the live-birth rates are probably not representative of the typical PCOS woman.
Many proteins are polyampholytes, as some amino acids tend to be acidic while others are basic.
The idea that lying produces physical side-effects has long been claimed.
These materials are often referred to as the `` initiators '' for the polymeric polyols, but they should not be confused with free radical `` initiators '' used to promote other polymerization reactions.
This property is useful when migration of a lubricant from one part of the equipment to another part must be avoided, such as in certain electronic devices.
The piece is generally considered the nadir of Boulez 's total serial period -LRB- the apex being Structures, book 1 of 1951 -- 52 -RRB-.
Previously, it was considered either as `` molecular fossil '' or as only a phosphorus and energy source providing the survival of microorganisms under extreme conditions.These compounds now known to also have regulatory roles and to occur in representatives of all kingdoms of living organisms, participating in metabolic correction and control on both genetic and enzymatic levels.
They participate in many regulatory mechanisms occurring in bacteria : \ nThey participate in the induction of rpoS, an RNA-polymerase subunit which is responsible for the expression of a large group of genes involved in adjustments to the stationary growth phase and many stressful agents.
Polyphosphates are present in animal cells, and there are many data on its participation in the regulatory processes during development and cellular proliferation and differentiation-especially in bone tissues and brain.
However, the PAOs have many characteristics that other organisms that accumulate polyphosphate do not have, that make them amenable to use in wastewater treatment.
It is thought that electrical blocks evolved in those species where a very fast block to polyspermy is needed, due to the presence of many sperm arriving simultaneously at the egg surface, as occurs in animals such as sea urchins.
Geologists have recognized innumerable fossil soils -LRB- paleosols -RRB- throughout the strata containing polystrate fossils at Joggins, Nova Scotia, Yellowstone petrified forests, coal mines of the Black Warrior Basin of Alabama, and many other locations.
In many cases, these paleosols are virtually identical to modern soils.
In some places where the dominant religion has had a legally enforced monopoly for centuries, the influx of folk religions is viewed as competition.
In some mirror configurations, the field in the center is a minimum in every direction, as it is in the central region of a polywell.
Of particular note is the emerging variation in handles used by many manufacturers.
Most pomades contain petroleum jelly -LRB- in fact, petroleum jelly can be used alone as a pomade -RRB- and mineral oil, and many also contain some sort of wax.
It is the official logo of many cities in Turkey.
Although not native to China, Korea or Japan, the pomegranate is widely grown there and many cultivars have been developed.
It is widely used for bonsai because of its flowers and for the unusual twisted bark that older specimens can attain.
The greater part of his life was spent in Milan, where for many years he was professor of sculpture at the Academy.
One of his best-known compositions is the group of the `` Mater Dolorosa '', in the church of San Carlo, at which he worked for many years.
It is said that some tribes in North Dakota could not accept losing and would kill anyone who beat them.
Some ancient biblical manuscripts argue that these people were waiting for the ` troubling of the water' ; -LRB- b -RRB- a few such manuscripts also move the setting away from Roman rituals into something more appropriate to Judaism, by adding that an angel would occasionally stir the waters, which would then cure the first person to enter.
Although the Vulgate does not include the ` troubling of the water' or the ` angel tradition', these were present in many of the manuscripts used by early English translations of the Bible, who therefore included it in their translations.
The Gospel of John suggests that it was probably used as a mikvah -LRB- ritual bath -RRB-, although mikvah are usually much smaller in size ; if the pool were a mikvah, it would be the largest ever found, by a substantial marginJames H. Charlesworth, quoted in ` Los Angeles Times', article : ` Biblical Pool Uncovered in Jerusalem', 9th August 2005.
Although most Christian scholars date the Gospel of John to the end of the first century, dates as late as the 140s have been suggested ; the latter date range would imply that the description in the Gospel of John was written after Hadrian had built the Nymphaeum.
As such, music critics and journalists have differing opinions on which category a band should be placed in.
Other perspectives from other magazines and individual music journalists and critics are also provided.
He rejected many of the ideas developed by John XXII.
Though some claim that he campaigned against the Immaculate Conception, this is far from clear.
Whether John Paul II canonised more saints than all previous popes put together is difficult to prove, as the records of many early canonisations are incomplete, missing, or inaccurate.'.
Casting himself in the role of a warrior, inevitably created enemies for Julius - many of whom accused him of being a sodomite.
This was almost certainly done in order to discredit him but perhaps, in doing so, accusers were attacking a perceived weak point in their adversary 's character.
Venetians - who were opposed to the pope 's new militarstic policy - were amongst the most vocal.
This encyclical was written in the wake of Vatican II, when the Catholic Church was questioning and revising many long-held practices.
Priestly celibacy is considered a discipline rather than dogma, and some at the time had expected that it might be relaxed.
Pius II was a versatile and voluminous author, one of the best and most industrious of his period.
The Pope was a bit shy on himself, but he valued initiative within the Church and created several new titles, rewards and orders to elevate those, who in his view deserved merit for their Church engagement.
Some historians have claimed that Sergius IV was essentially a puppet ruler for Crescentius III.
Others, however, claimed that the Pope resisted Crescentius III 's power.
There is some evidence that Sergius IV gave political backing to an anti-Crescentius faction in the city.
It had been believed that he was buried in the ` Coemetarium Praetextati' where a tomb was inscribed with his name.
While many historians accept this belief doubt remains.
Therefore it is possible that Pope Urban is indeed buried in the Coemetarium Praetextati.
Some indigenous communities speaking languages called Popoluca feel that this name is unfairly given and carries a derogatory meaning and they prefer other names to be used about them.
Below is a list of different varieties of Popoluca and Popoloca and the alternative names that are now beginning to be used for them, at least in some technical and governmental publications.
The PS2 port added new events and scenes based on the DVD version, although some of the content that was removed.
The correlation might therefore be accounted for by a bias among some popper users towards high-risk sexual behaviours.Romanelli F, Smith KM, Thornton, AC & Pomeroy C -LRB- 2004 -RRB- `` Poppers : epidemiology and clinical management of inhaled nitrite abuse '', ` Pharmacotherapy' 2004 Jan ; Vol. 24 -LRB- 1 -RRB-, pp. 69-78.
Additionally, some users report a sensation of light pressure on the back of the neck.
He killed six soldiers and wounded several others, before being shot dead himself.
The action has been seen by some as providing the catalyst for the eruption of the First Intifada.
The question whether popular culture or mass culture is inherently conservative, or whether it can be used in a subversive strategy as well, is equally hotly debated.
It seems widely accepted that popular culture forms can function at any moment as anti-cultures.
They are expressions of social resentment on the part of groups which have been subordinated and excluded by today 's `` civilized society ''.
Beside `` Do They Know it 's Christmas ? '' and USA for Africa projects from the UK and USA respectively, plenty of other countries also joined in.
The video for `` Za million godina '' was played on many TV stations worldwide and also, on July 13 at the Wembley Stadium on large video screens during a video interlude.
One political cartoon relating to events in 1468-70 has survived in several different versions -LRB- many from years later -RRB-.
The sentiment of the time was probably best expressed by preacher John Ball during the English Peasant Revolt when he said `` When Adam delved and Eve span, who was then the gentleman ? ''.
The operation will demand many apparent brutal and heartless decisions.
Thus the term has nothing to do with the biological aspects of carrying capacity, but is an economic term employed to imply that the transfer payment schemes of some developed countries might fail once the population declines to a certain point.
With proper care, many of these `` childhood diseases '' are often survivable.
At the same time, on a number of occasions the workforce was transferred by non-violent means, usually by means of `` recruitment '' -LRB-' ????????' -RRB-.
This kind of recruitment was regularly performed at forced settlements, where people were naturally more willing to resettle.
For example, the workforce of the Donbass and Kuzbass mining basins is known to have been replenished in this way.
-LRB- As a note of historical comparison, in Imperial Russia the mining workers at state mines -LRB- ` bergals', '' ??????? '', from German ` Bergauer' -RRB- were often recruited in lieu of military service which, for a certain period, had a term of 25 years -RRB-.
Today the term `` populism '' is often used, especially outside academia, as a vague, frequently pejorative description, whether to describe vote-grabbing measures and rhetoric used by mainstream parties or in connection with new right-wing nationalist movements as well as many left-wing socialist movements in Latin America.
The player commands several different types of followers, each of which has advantages and disadvantages in combat.
There are various styles of porches, all of which depend on the architectural tradition of its location.
Noah A. Timmins, a former storekeeper in Mattawa and the owner of the LaRose silver mine in Cobalt, purchased Benny Hollinger 's claims and opened the Hollinger Mine, one of the greatest gold-producers in the western hemisphere.
In addition to being influenced by New York jazz and southern black music, many biographers and contemporaries have noted that for many numbers, Gershwin used melodies from Jewish liturgical music.
Retrieved February 21, 2006. Allusions to Jewish music have been detected by other observers as well.
Pork Scratchings are typically heavy, hard and have a crispy layer of fat under the skin, some still retain the hair of the pig, and are flavored only with salt.
Hair removal is not 100 % effective which is why some retain a few hairs.
The hairs sometimes make people question the desirability of these pub snacks.
She is generally regarded as a bore and motherly figure.
` USA Today' claimed in 2003 that websites such as and generated $ 2 billion in revenue in that year, which was allegedly about 10 % of the overall domestic porn market at the time.Jon Swartz,, USATODAY.com, 9 March 2004.
Magazines or comic books featuring softcore -LRB- and some hardcore -RRB- pornography are commonly sold in newsstands.
Several other movies were produced by the European company Private in Costa Rica in the 1990 's.
The American companies Anabolic and Diabolic produced several Latin based series such as Panochitas, which included trips to places such as the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, and Chile.
Many non-pornographic magazines have some glamour photography and as long as women are in something more than a swimsuit, it is considered a non-pornographic photograph.
Several non-pornographic magazines have some nude photographs of women as a part of their articles but as long as they have an artistic quality and do not show men, it is not considered pornographic.
The estate office agreed a price, and there began the Elephant Fayre, one of the most eclectic festivals of the 1980s.
The Gadigal people are said to have occupied the land stretching along the south side of Port Jackson from what is now South Head, in an arc west through to Petersham.
The school 's music department has been widely recognized as one of the finest in the country.
In 2008 the school 's music department went on tour to Cleveland Ohio and performed at many exciting venues including The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and a Cleveland Indians baseball game.
Stables for horses and cars were located in various parts of the area.
Streets -- unlike now - -- were generally free of parked vehicles, allowing hucksters and other vendors space to easily proceed down the narrow side streets with their horse and wagon on a daily basis.
Running as root can be a security risk, so some people use port forwarding to redirect incoming traffic from a low numbered port to software listening on a higher port.
This has resulted in different computer abuse legislation in various countries, as well as different interpretations of those laws.
Neither chlorine -LRB- e.g., bleach -RRB- nor iodine alone is considered completely effective against ` Cryptosporidium', although they are partially effective against ` Giardia'.
This combination is also potentially more effective in some cases than even using portable electronic disinfection based on UV treatment, such as using a, that fails to work for other than very clear water.
For several generations the Portage River area led the nation in celery production.
The R. M. Kellogg farms also maintained a popular tourist attraction, the Kellogg Gardens, elaborate gardens with many unusual structures, next to the Portage River in the city of Three Rivers.
Red spots mayor may not be present.
Some say it has more shipwrecks than any other section of fresh water in the world.
The ` Portevin -- Le Chatelier effect' describes a serrated stress-strain curve, which some materiels exhibit as they undergo plastic deformation.This effect occurs, when solute atoms -LRB- e.g C in steels -RRB- have sufficient mobility and thus can segregate at a dislocation core.
Due to the localized deformations some materials, e.g., aluminum-magnesium alloys, develop a rough surface during deformation processes, rendering them useless for autobody or casing applications.
Although now just a neighborhood of the much larger Louisville, Portland would continue to flourish as a working class community through the 1930s, with residents working in many of the nearby factories.
Both floods had driven many middle class families from the area.
Despite the loss of many of area 's oldest buildings, portions of the neighborhood away from the flood wall were largely untouched by urban renewal, and retain a great number of pre-Civil War buildings.
Although many older mansions exist in Portland, the vast majority of homes built in the area were shotgun houses.
They can be pricey, if compared to other towns, but they are also an easier, safer and more dependable option than buses in some cases.
Many people enjoy having professionally made ` family portraits' to hang in their homes, or special portraits to commemorate certain events, such as graduations or weddings.Since the dawn of photography, people have made portraits.
Studios sprang up in cities around the world, some cranking out more than 500 plates a day.
New scientific tests on the label suggest that it dates to Shakespeare 's lifetime, which, if true, would make this a likely authentic image of Shakespeare.
It is attributed by a family tradition to one John Sanders or possibly his brother Thomas.
It is no longer attributed to him, nor is there any evidence to identify it as Shakespeare, however it was probably painted during his lifetime and may depict a poet.
This method of working did not catch on in general manufacturing in Britain for many decades, and when it did it was imported from America.
Other minor influences include some 5th century vestiges of Alan settlement, which were found in Alenquer, Coimbra and even Lisbon.Milhazes, José. - Rádio e Televisao de Portugal in Portuguese.
A victory over the Muslims at Ourique in 1139 is traditionally taken as the occasion when Portugal was transformed from a county -LRB- County of Portugal as a fief of the Kingdom of León -RRB- into an independent kingdom : the Kingdom of Portugal., Guimaraes - the city is known as the cradle of Portugal. -RSB- -RSB- On 24 June 1128, the Battle of Sao Mamede occurred near Guimaraes.
The Portuguese language Wikipedia is different from the English one in a number of aspects. \ n Proposed deletion is unavailable.
On the other hand, few poets who have chiefly devoted themselves to this form have produced so large a proportion of really exquisite work.
The comparatively few pieces in which be either forgets his doubts and inward conflicts, or succeeds in giving them an objective form, are among the most beautiful in any literature.
The purely introspective sonnets are less attractive, but equally finely wrought, interesting as psychological studies, and impressive from their sincerity.
According to a highly criticized recent study that was published in the American Journal of Human Genetics in December 2008 by Adams et al., about 30 percent of modern Portuguese -LRB- 23.6 in the north and 36.3 in the south -RRB- have DNA reflecting what can be a male Sephardic Jewish ancestry and about 14 % -LRB- 11.8 in the north and 16.1 % in the south -RRB- have a probable Moorish ancestry, Adams et al. 2008.
On the other hand, Chris Tyler-Smith, an expert on Y-chromosome genetics and a collaborator with the team that carried the study, argues that the individual differences in Y-chromosome markers suggest that Iberians and Sephardic Jews must share ancestry more recent than several millennia,.
The PS, which had also formed an electoral coalition with several small left-wing groups, suffered a drubbing and won only 27.4 %, a large drop compared with 1976 results.
The species status in the New World is uncertain : it is generally considered an exotic weed ; however, there is evidence that the species was in Crawford Lake deposits -LRB- Ontario -RRB- in 1430-89, suggesting that it reached North America in the pre-Columbian era.
It is naturalised elsewhere and in some regions is considered an invasive weed.
Therefore, many Poser pornographic artists choose to create fantastical scenes that may feature animals, monsters, aliens, magical or supernatural elements or far-fetched BDSM scenarios.
Violent and disturbing imagery may also be seen in such computer-generated porn.
Almost twice the size of ` Side A', ` Side B' contains stories by comic staples like Jim Mahfood, Jeffrey Brown, and Ryan Kelly ; as well as Xeric Grant winners : Box Brown, Colleen Frakes and many others.
In many countries PAP machines are only available by prescription.
A sleep medicine doctor, who may be also trained in respiratory medicine, psychiatry, neurology, pediatrics, family practice or otolaryngology -LRB- ear, nose and throat -RRB-, will interpret the results from the initial sleep study and recommend a pressure from test.
This may be done in one night -LRB- a split study with the diagnostic testing done in the first part of the night, and CPAP testing done in the later part of the night -RRB- or with a follow up second sleep study during which the CPAP titration may be done over the entire evening.
` Positive psychology' is a relatively young branch of psychology that `` studies the strengths and virtues that enable individuals and communities to thrive. ''.
Few hospitals and universities are capable of maintaining such systems, and most clinical PET is supported by third-party suppliers of radiotracers which can supply many sites simultaneously.
To some extent, the federal regulations clarify how the law should be put into practice.
In some areas the final implementation of the law is up to the state educational agencies -LRB- SEAs -RRB- and local educational agencies -LRB- LEAs -RRB- - the public school districts.
A person may suffer from post vacation blues after returning home or to a normal routine from a long vacation, especially if it was a pleasurable one.
The longer a trip lasts, the more intense the post vacation blues may be.
Post vacation blues may result in tiredness, loss of appetite, strong feelings of nostalgia, and in some cases, depression.
Jet lag may intensify the post vacation blues.
While MacDonald may have hoped that the BNA Act would provide the central government in Ottawa with a strong hand, some of the provinces, particularly Ontario under the leadership of its premier Oliver Mowat, pushed for interpretations of the Constitution that favoured provincial rather than Dominion interests.
In perhaps the most infamous incident, Rabbi Michael Lerner was banned from speaking at a February 16, 2003 anti-war rally in San Francisco, less than a month before the U.S. invaded Iraq.
It was generally believed that this was done at ANSWER 's behest, because Lerner had been critical of what he perceives as ANSWER 's anti-Israel politics.
Post-Zionism is a term associated with a variety of perceptions and different positions, behind which stands criticism of the core beliefs of Zionist groups.
Post-Zionists raise many questions about Zionism and the state of Israel, among them : \ n Is the state of Israel indeed a safe shelter for the Jewish nation ?.
Using a cohort of 10 women, Gomez, Lavin C., & Zapata examined ways to categorize PAS under the assumption that it exists and that it is related to Post Traumatic Stress Disorder.
While readily acknowledging the ways a given religious movement failed to meet their personal expectations and spiritual needs, many voluntary defectors have found ways of salvaging some redeeming values from their previous religious associations and activities.
But there are some voluntary apostates from new religious movements who leave deeply embittered and harshly critical of their former religious associations and activities.
Power noise groups meld noise music with various forms of electronic dance music.
When vocals are included, the use is typically non-traditional : some post-rock bands employ vocals as purely instrumental efforts and incidental to the sound, rather than a more traditional use where `` clean '', easily-interpretable vocals are important for poetic and lyrical meaning.
When present, post-rock vocals are often soft or droning and are typically infrequent or present in irregular intervals.
Sigur Rós, a band known for their distinctive vocals, fabricated a language that critics call `` Hopelandic '' -LRB- Vonlenska in icelandic, a term even used by the band -RRB-, which has been described by the band as `` a form of gibberish vocals that fits to the music and acts as another instrument. ''.
The movement is difficult to define or summarize, but may be broadly understood as a body of distinct responses to structuralism -LRB- hence the prefix `` post '' -RRB-.
In general, collectors follow the stamp catalogs in matters of color nomenclature, even though the different catalogs are not consistent with each other.
Although there are a great many named colors, the selection used by philatelists is limited to several dozen, modified by adjectives such as `` dark '', `` light '', `` pale '', `` bright '' and `` deep ''.
From the late 19th century, Mexico 's stamps were generally conservative in design and often manufactured abroad.
In 1928, the Zone issued a definitive series inscribed `` CANAL ZONE POSTAGE '' depicting various persons involved in the construction of the canal, as well as a 5 c value showing the Gaillard Cut.
Thereafter stamps appeared at an average rate of about two per year, with a commemorative set in some years and no stamps in others.
This paralleled the abandonment of the word `` POSTAGE '' on many United States stamps, as the United States ceased to issue revenue stamps.
In some countries -LRB- such as those of continental Europe, where a postcode format of four or five numeric digits is commonly used -RRB- the numeric postal code is sometimes prefixed with a country code to avoid confusion when sending international mail to or from that country.
For many years, licence plate codes - for instance `` D - '' for Germany or `` F - '' for France - were used, although this was not accepted by the Universal Postal Union -LRB- UPU -RRB-.
Dead letter offices would use various markings to keep track of their progress in finding the addressee, such as a notation that the letter had been advertised in the local newspaper.
At some elite universities, there may be a minimum stipend established for all Ph.D. students, as well as a tuition waiver.
At many elite universities, these stipends have been increasing, in response both to student pressure and especially to competition among the elite universities for graduate students.
The mixed-capitalization of the PostgreSQL name can confuse some people on first viewing.
The several pronunciations of `` SQL '' can lead to this confusion.
It is also common to hear it abbreviated as '' ` Postgres' '', its original name.
Transformations, NY : Doubleday, 1956, pp 235-236. That set the agenda for many subsequent Van Gogh studies, which are predominantly biographical to this day.
Postictal migraines are a major complaint among epilepsy patients, and can have a variety of etiologies.
One possible cause of these migraines is high intracranial pressure resulting from postictal cerebral edema.
One possible reason is the large number of casual e-mail users that entered the scene after the popularization of the internet.
Another possible reason is the inadequate support provided by the reply function of some webmail readers which do not automatically insert in the reply a copy the original message, or do so but without any quoting prefix level indicators.
Finally, most forums, wiki discussion pages, and blogs -LRB- such as Slashdot -RRB- essentially impose the bottom-post format, by displaying all recent messages in chronological order.
Approximately 25 % - 85 % of postpartum women will experience the `` blues '' for a few days.
Between 7 % - 17 % may experience clinical depression, with a higher risk among those women with a history of clinical depression.
There is some evidence suggesting that administering glucocorticoids immediately after a traumatic experience may help prevent PTSD.
Several studies have shown that patients who receive high doses of hydrocortisone for treatment of septic shock or following surgery have a lower incidence and fewer symptoms of PTSD.
In this study, corticosterone impaired memory performance, suggesting that it may reduce risk for PTSD by interfering with consolidation of traumatic memories.
The neurodegenerative effects of the glucocorticoids, however, may prove this treatment counterproductive.
Outside the Faroes, Postverk Foroya is most renowned for its postage stamps.
Faroese history is a common topic with relevant issues almost each year.
On the other hand, if you run a larger operation and use a lot of labor to wash pots, it might be worth the extra money to go big.
KOH is widely used in the laboratory for the same purposes.
KOH is also widely used as a way to remove hair from animal hides, leaving the hides in a solution of KOH and water for a few hours.
It was and is also used as a component in some fertilizers.
For shorter timescales, it is likely that not enough Argon 40 will have had time to accumulate in order to be accurately measurable.
In either case, it is a field defined in space, from which many important physical properties may be derived.
Some groups, such as the Kwakwaka ` wakw, used the potlatch as an arena in which highly competitive contests of status took place.
In some cases, goods were actually destroyed after being received, or instead of being given away.
The earliest versions of the wheel were probably turned slowly by hand or by foot while coiling a pot, but later developments allowed energy stored in a flywheel to be used to speed up the process of throwing.
Many modern scholars suggest that it was first developed in Mesopotamia, although Egypt has also been claimed as a possible place of origin.
Duck in this context may also relate to the Roman military honorific `` Dux '', meaning troop or tribal leader, but it is unclear if ducas pre-dates Dux or if they are etymologically related. \ n `` Spanwanned '' -LRB- agricultural -RRB- meaning the state of being stuck astride a wall whilst attempting to climb over it.
This is the earliest and the most individualized and direct forming method.
Wares can be constructed by hand from coils of clay, from flat slabs of clay, from solid balls of clay -- or some combination of these.
Some studio potters find hand building more conducive to fully using the imagination to create one-of-a-kind works of art, while others find this with the wheel.
King Street, half the Market Square and some of the Brook End area were destroyed.
It was reported to have burned for a day.
Unlike some of the other nearby islands which were formerly marshland, Potton Island has been inhabited at least since the Neolithic era.
By 2004 most tourist hotels had been converted or rebuilt as high end apartment developments, resulting in a rapid wider gentrification of the area - and increasingly large gay community - although the continued presence of a number of large backpacker hostels along with dozens of pubs, nightclubs, restaurants and similar venues have confirmed the suburb 's role as one of Sydney 's leading entertainment precincts.
Sears also carries some Poulan and Husqvarna products.
Visit to view some of them, or this site,, for various examples.
Market Square - The square is now closed to traffic and contains several features of historical note.
These include `` The Golden Ball '', the town 's most notable public house, where victory over Napolean at Waterloo was announced and `` The Bull Inn '' once one of Poulton 's three Coaching inns.
The Just So Stories by Rudyard Kipling, many of which give explanations for the origin of animals and their characteristics. \ n Australian Aboriginal dreamtime stories, such as the Rainbow Serpent. \ n Certain tall tales include pourquoi elements, such as Pecos Bill taming his horse, Widowmaker.
They normally involve people being transformed into animals and plants because of certain untoward habits they have.
Lachance is said to have exclaimed' ça va faire une maudite poutine' -LRB- `` it will make a damn mess '' -RRB-, hence the name.
The sauce was allegedly added later, to keep the fries warm longer.
For example in late 2007 increases in the price of grains led to food riots in some countries.
In addition, most African nations have borrowed substantial sums of money.
As such, many newly democratic nations in Africa are saddled with debt run up by totalitarian regimes.
Large debts usually result in little being spent on social services, such as education, pensions, or medical care.
In addition, most of the debt currently owed -LRB- approximately $ 321 billion -LRB- U.S. -RRB- in 1996.
The fact that many peasants can not earn a decent living as farmers is a signal that their labor is more useful in urban employment, hence the hundreds of millions of people who have migrated.
Contrary to popular perceptions, rural India has benefited from this growth : extreme rural poverty has declined from 94 % in 1985 to 61 % in 2005, and they project that it will drop to 26 % by 2025.
Report concludes that ` India 's economic reforms and the increased growth that has resulted have been the most successful anti-poverty programmes in the country'.
For example, a person who lives in a home with a mud floor is considered severely deprived of shelter.
A person who never attended school and can not read is considered severely deprived of education.
A person who has no newspaper, radio, television, or telephone is considered severely deprived of information.
All people who meet any two of these conditions -- for example, they live in homes with mud floors ` and' can not read -- are considered to be living in absolute poverty.
Gameplay was also improved in some areas, and super attacks were made easier to execute.
Some allow the player to change certain characteristics of the characters, others are used to view special music video clips, and others to call strange characters to help the player in battle.
The game has the same backgrounds and all the characters from ` Matrimelee', and because of that it is usually described as a port of the game, while in fact the game 's story takes place after the events from the previous game, making it a sort of sequel or update.
It is possible that this is due to the very little chance of marketing the series ever had outside of its country of origin.
The script will download information such as the director, the genre, the production year, and many other information automatically.
The complete script can still be downloaded from many script sites.
The IMDB Fetch Script may be out of date, however there are links to updated versions at the end of this article, and in the new support forum.
More often than not this dialog involves the character challenging you to a fight.
You progress through the game by challenging a certain amount of people before the next event is triggered.
It is claimed that due to the number of young people who attended the conference, it is the largest activist youth event on climate change in history.
The event was also attended by a number of keynote speakers which included Al Gore The main aim of the first conference was to urge elected officials to pass legislation which would include three planks taken from the platform of the climate advocacy coalition 1Sky : \ nThe creation of a 5 million-strong Clean Energy Job Corps \ nThe reduction of greenhouse gases to 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050, which scientists say is the baseline for mitigating the worst effects of global warming \ nA moratorium on new coal plants and divestment from fossil fuel and highway subsidies.
One can often overlook unmarked categories.
Whiteness forms an unmarked category not commonly visible to the powerful, as they often fall within this category.
Social groups can apply this view of power to race, gender, and disability without modification : the able body is the neutral body ; the ` man' is the normal status.
This design practice may require the use of level-shifters when two blocks with different supply voltages communicate with each other.
Stacking and parking states : Logic gates may leak differently during logically equivalent input states -LRB- say 10 on a NAND gate, as opposed to 01 -RRB-.
State machines may have less leakage in certain states.
Although none of these were ever particularly identified as such, the music that they created is influenced by, and follows the same musical format as, many of the pioneering power trios.
Fourth, moral doctrines should aim toward truth and honesty, not the manipulation of others -LRB- Russell 1938:216 -218 -RRB-.
In order to achieve an extremely aggressive schedule while including substantially new function -LRB- such as substantial performance enhancements, new instructions and importantly POWER/PowerPC 's first symmetric multiprocessing -LRB- SMP -RRB- implementation -RRB- the design leveraged a number of key technologies and project management strategies.
The 601 team leveraged much of the basic structure and portions of the IBM RISC Single Chip -LRB- RSC -RRB- processor, but also included support for the vast majority of the new PowerPC instructions not in the POWER instruction set.
While nearly every portion of the RSC design was modified, and many design blocks were substantially modified or completely redesigned given the completely different unified I/O bus structure and SMP/memory coherency support.
While many aircraft are physically capable of performing powerbacks, many companies impose restrictions on the practice, mainly due to the risk of foreign object damage from debris propelled into the air.
Northwest Airlines' fleet of DC-9 aircraft used to commonly utilize powerback operations at certian airports, however the airline discontinued the practice in 2005 citing the need to conserve fuel.In addition, in the United States, restrictions on powerbacks are enforced by the FAA, and the local aviation officials.
Only certain gates at certain airports are approved for powerbacks, and are usually placarded as such.
Many airlines impose stricter safety procedures for powerbacks, which often include disallowing a powerback under certain environmental conditions, such as rain or snow.
Forced landings in water are extremely dangerous, for pilot and/or passenger may become entangled in the parachute lines of a sinking powered parachute.
The troupe 's most popular production to date is Cinderella which has been performed more than a thousand times.
In its most general sense, the ` practice of law' involves giving legal advice to clients, drafting legal documents for clients, and representing clients in legal negotiations and court proceedings such as lawsuits, and is applied to the professional services of a lawyer or attorney at law, barrister, solicitor, or civil law notary.
However, there is a substantial amount of overlap between the practice of law and various other professions where clients are represented by agents.
Many documents may now be created by computer-assisted drafting libraries, where the clients are asked a series of questions posed by the software in order to construct the legal documents.
Practice pad implements can be constructed in a variety of shapes and sizes, and by typical design, may be adequately compact -LRB- thin -RRB- and lightweight for ease in transport.
A simulation of snare-drum-style resonance can be implied via various hardware features added to the implement.
These devices can be placed on a myriad of surfaces, including directly onto the top batter head of an actual 14 '' snare drum or other drum -LRB- one possessing a true rim bearing a diameter greater than the total span of the base of the device -RRB-, which, when struck, could have the added effect of transferring to the drum 's natural snare-side response along with severely muting the sound of the drum.
Several like units are often mounted in an array, akin to that of a standard drum kit assemblage for practice purposes, and so on.
While most well-known for its kicking technique, which generates power from hip rotation rather than snapping the leg, pradal serey consists of four types of strikes : punches, kicks, elbows and knee strikes.
It has various building which are build in various shapes and sizes.
Pragati maidan houses a movie theatre called Shakuntalam, it 's quite popular among college kids for its comparatively cheap tickets.
Reprinted -LRB- ` Chance, Love, and Logic', pp. 82-105 -RRB-, -LRB- CP 2.669-693 -RRB-, -LRB- ` Philosophical Writings of Peirce', pp. 174-189 -RRB-, -LRB- W 3:290 -305 -RRB-, -LRB- EP 1:155 -169 -RRB-. ` Internet Archive' ''. and, given the final ineradicability of error from measurement, not only for the view that space will never be found to be exactly Euclidean `` I think we may feel confident that the parallax of the farthest star lies somewhere between -0. '05 and +0.' 15, and within another century our grandchildren will surely know whether the three angles of a triangle are greater or less than 180 ° -- that they are exactly that amount is what nobody ever can be justified in concluding. '' -- Peirce, 1891, `` The Architecture of Theories '', ` The Monist', vol. I, no. 2, p. 174 -LRB- CP 6.29, EP 1:295 -RRB-., but also for the reality of chance and the real 's lack of positive exactness.
Peirce 's discussions and definitions of truth have influenced several epistemic truth theorists and been used as foil for deflationary and correspondence theories of truth.
The Orloj stopped working many times in the centuries after 1552, and was repaired many times.
Some speculate that the government purposely gouged out the original maker 's eyes in order to prevent him from making a similar clock for another country.
On the web page of the Falcons read the following.It is hard to believe that we are about ready to say good - bye to our second year at Prairie Knolls Middle School.
She has coached for many years and brings many assets to the program.
` Prakrit' -LRB- also transliterated as ` Pracrit' -RRB- -LRB- Sanskrit : -RRB- is the name for a group of Middle Indic, Indo-Aryan languages, derived from Classical Sanskrit and other Old Indic dialects.Daniels, pg. 377 The word itself has a flexible definition, being defined sometimes as, `` original, natural, artless, normal, ordinary, usual '', or `` vernacular '', in contrast to the literary and religious orthodoxy of ''.
But there are scholars who believe that prakrit is older than sanskrit and it is on the base of prakrit -LRB- original -RRB- the language sanskrit -LRB- refined -RRB- was made.
It is as simple as that, '' says this actor who does not bother about the numerous critics and intellectuals who do not like his acting at all.
Most Pravic words in the book are proper names -LRB- said to be generated randomly by a computer -RRB-, and they are two-syllable words with five or six phonemes -LRB- of the form CVCVC, where C = consonant, V = vowel -RRB-, if one counts the groups ` sh', ` gv' and ` kv' as single consonants, which they probably are.
Adherents believe that this can result in healing, by bringing spiritual reality -LRB- the `` Kingdom of Heaven '' in Biblical terms -RRB- into clearer focus in the human scene.
Christian Scientists believe that prayer does not change the spiritual creation but gives a clearer view of it, and the result appears in the human scene as healing : the human picture adjusts to coincide more nearly with the divine reality.
Christian Scientists do not practice intercessory prayer as it is commonly understood, and they generally avoid combining prayer with medical treatment in the belief that the two practices tend to work against each other.
Despite `` Prayer '' receiving little airplay, Disturbed continued to promote the music video by including it on their album, ` Believe', and by posting it on various websites.
Some groups formed permanent settlements.
It is not yet clear, however, to what extent these periods were contemporaneous with similar stages of development in other geographic regions.
Urban civilization, which includes most of Iran, Afghanistan, North Western Province of Pakistan which are Pashtoons, may have begun as early as 3000 to 2000 BCE -LRB- see also Bactria-Margiana Archaeological Complex and Indus Valley Civilization -RRB-.
The ancient city of Mudigak may have been a provincial colony of the Indus Valley Civilization or closely affiliated, but this remains largely circumstantial and speculative.
He reminded viewers that Singapore would have great opportunities as well as major challenges ahead as Asia was rising, and the PAP would make Singapore a land of opportunity for all people, and each person could find his or her own niche and excel.
The term ` pre-sectarian Buddhism' is used by some scholars for example :' ... stressed that the written canon in Buddhism is sectarian from the outset, and that presectarian Buddhism must be deduced from the writings as they now exist -RRB-.'.
Scripture of the Lotus Blossom of the Fine Dharma, Leon Kurvitz, 1976, Columbia University Press -LRB- quote via Google Scholar search-engine -RRB- to refer to the Buddhism that existed before the various subsects of Buddhism came into being.
AK Warder, Indian Buddhism, 1999, 3rd edition. and ` the Buddhism of the Buddha himself'. This kernel of doctrine is presumably common Buddhism of the period `` before the schisms of the fourth and third centuries BC.
Proc Nutr Soc. 2007 ; 66 -LRB- 3 -RRB- : P-307-15 ; See additional : and intestinal regularity. Recent human trials have reinforced the role of Prebiotics in preventing and possibly stopping early stage colon cancer.'.
British Journal of Nutrition' ; September 2009, Volume 102, Issue 05, pp 663-671, `` Fermentation products of inulin-type fructans reduce proliferation and induce apoptosis in human colon tumour cells of different stages of carcinogenesis '' Authors : U. Munjal, M. Glei, B.L. Pool-Zobel, D. Scharlau It has been argued that many of these health effects emanate not just from bifidogenic function of prebiotics, but also from increased production of short-chain fatty acids by the stimulated beneficial bacteria.
A ` precentor' is a person, usually a clergy member, who is in charge of preparing worship services.
This position is usually held in a large church, and is typically used in the churches of the Anglican Communion.
The precentor of a cathedral is usually a residentiary canon or prebendary, and may be assisted by a succentor -LRB- particularly in the daily task of leading choral singing -RRB-.
In some cathedrals -LRB- including Canterbury -RRB-, the Precentor is a minor Canon, and therefore part of the Foundation, but not part of the Chapter.
A precinct is generally the lowest-level governmentally-related division in the United States, and in that context is also known in some places as an ` election district'.
This is believed to be an example of early animation..
The article is often incorrectly cited as ` Persistence of Vision with Regard to Moving Objects', or ` On the Persistence of Vision with Regard to Human Motion', and given an incorrect date. \ n 1824/1827 - Nicéphore Niépce produces a permanent image on a bitumen-coated pewter plate exposed for eight hours. \ n 1826 - John Ayrton Paris markets the ` Thaumatrope', a card which, when spun, gives the illusion of movement. \ n 1831 - Faraday 's Law of electromagnetic.
It has been observed that well-fed predator animals in a lax captivity -LRB- for instance, pet or farm animals -RRB- will usually differentiate between putative prey animals who are familiar co-inhabitants in the same human area from wild ones outside the area.
This interaction can range from peaceful coexistence to close companionship ; motivation to ignore the predatory instinct may result from mutual advantage or fear of reprisal from human masters who have made clear that harming co-inhabitants will not be tolerated.
Pet cats and pet mice, for example, may live together in the same human residence without incident as companions.
Assuming the warrior was armed and expert, it might almost be an even match, but Dachande would put his wager on the female.
Predatory pricing practices may result in antitrust claims of monopolization or attempts to monopolize.
If there is a likelihood that market entrants will prevent the predator from recouping its investment through supra competitive pricing, then there is no probability of success and the antitrust claim would fail.
Some critics claim that the idea that God is omnipotent and omniscient did n't formally exist in Judaism during the Biblical era, but rather was a later development due to the influence of neo-Platonic and neo-Aristotelian philosophy.
Many modern Jewish thinkers in the 20th century have resolved the dialectical tension by holding that God is simply not omnipotent, in the commonly used sense of that word.
Orthodox Jewish rabbis generally affirm that God must be viewed as omnipotent, but they have varying definitions of what the word ` omnipotent' means.
Thus one finds that some Modern Orthodox theologians have views that are essentially the same as non-Orthodox theologians, but they use different terminology.
They did the same with several other lines.
Certain controls were known for failure.
The concepts of environmental economics come into play with some of the aspects suggested.
With the subsequent increase of the used-goods market -LRB- and with new goods being taxed -RRB- it is suspected that people would put more emphasis on maintenance of things for longer use and better resale value, and that they may also shy away from disposable goods.
This may reduce international shipping and consequent environmental impact, as well as production in countries with less stringent pollution controls.
`` Given these judgments of the Soviet future made by political leaders and journalists, the question is why were they right and so many of our Sovietological colleagues wrong.
Most of the Sovietologists, on the other hand, were left-liberal in their politics, an orientation that undermined their capacity to accept the view that economic statism, planning, socialist incentives, would not work.
Multivariate regression -LRB- above -RRB- is generally used when the response variable is continuous and has an unbounded range.
Often the response variable may not be continuous but rather discrete.
While mathematically it is feasible to apply multivariate regression to discrete ordered dependent variables, some of the assumptions behind the theory of multivariate linear regression no longer hold, and there are other techniques such as discrete choice models which are better suited for this type of analysis.
Both methods may lead to the same results and, thus, can be interchangeable.
However, it is not always possible to interchange them since computing via frequencies requires availability of statistics, possibility to gather the data as well as having the knowledge of the extent to which one can interlink the system 's constituent elements.
After verifying her cover story, they quickly accept her into their ranks, although several of their number are concerned she may be a Federation spy and do not trust her.
In addition to its religious overtones, perhaps reflecting McAloon 's education in a Catholic seminary, there were several allegorical songs about a character who embodied a mix of Howard Hughes, Jesse James, and Elvis Presley.
McAloon has alluded in interviews to several albums-worth of songs that he has written but are unreleased/unrecorded including amongst others, concept albums based on the life of Michael Jackson -LRB- ` Behind the Veil' -RRB-, the history of the world -LRB- ` Earth : The Story So Far' -RRB- and -LRB- ` Zorro the Fox' -RRB- about a fictional superhero.
The Chinese authorities placed many obstacles in the way of the free spread of the Gospel.
Fathers Lavest and Pernet were subjected to cruel treatment and several Christian communities were uprooted.
Under the direction of the new prefect, other communities were established, and finally a certain measure of liberty was accorded to the missionaries.
` Perceptual Map of Competing Products with Ideal Vectors ` Starting with raw data from surveys, researchers apply positioning techniques to determine important dimensions and plot the position of competing products on these dimensions.
In some cases where complications may have arisen, the fertilized egg might implant itself in the fallopian tubes or the cervix, causing an ectopic pregnancy.
Pregnancy Category B2 ` Drugs which have been taken by only a limited number of pregnant women and women of childbearing age, without an increase in the frequency of malformation or other direct or indirect harmful effects on the human fetus having been observed.Studies in animals are inadequate or may be lacking, but available data show no evidence of an increased occurrence of fetal damage.'.
Pregnancy Category C'Drugs which, owing to their pharmaceutical effects, have caused or may be suspected of causing, harmful effects on the human fetus or neonate without causing malformations.
These effects may be reversible.'.
Pregnancy Category D'Drugs which have caused, are suspected to have caused or may be expected to cause, an increased incidence of human fetal malformations or irreversible damage.
These drugs may also have adverse pharmacological effects.'.
Although sea levels were still lower than they are today, Ireland may already have been an island by the time the first settlers arrived by boat.
There is nothing surprising in this, though, for most of the Mesolithic sites in Ireland are coastal settlements.
In some ways this economy was forced upon them, for many centuries were to pass before the treeless permafrost was transformed into a densely forested fertile land.
They start in the 5th millennium BC, though some authors speculate on Mesolithic roots.
While the best-known of these is Stonehenge, where the main structures date from the early Bronze Age, such monuments have been found throughout most of Western and Northern Europe, notably at Carnac, France, at Skara Brae in the Orkney Islands, in Portugal, and in Wiltshire, England, the area of Stonehenge, the Avebury circle, the tombs at West Kennet, and Woodhenge.
The tomb of Knowth has rock-cut ornaments as well ; one of them may be the oldest known image of the Moon.
Many of these monuments were megalithic tombs, and archaeologists speculate that most have religious significance.
Earths and clays may have provided prehistoric peoples with some of their first medicines.
This is related to geophagy, which is extremely widespread among animals in the wild as well as among domesticated animals.
` Animal Behaviour' 59 : 899-915. Also, early humans could have learned about the use of various healing clays by observing animal behavior.
Some suggest that the origin of music likely stems from naturally occurring sounds and rhythms.
Human music may echo these phenomena using patterns, repetition and tonality.
Even today, some cultures have certain instances of their music intending to imitate natural sounds.
In some instances, this feature is related to shamanistic beliefs or practice.Diószegi 1960 : 203 It may also serve entertainment -LRB- game -RRB- Nattiez : 5 or practical -LRB- luring animals in hunt -RRB- functions.
However, as the overemphasis on parental influence of psychodynamics theory has been strongly criticized in the previous century, modern psychologists adopted interracial contact as a more important determinant than childhood experience on shaping people 's prejudice traits -LRB- Stephan & Rosenfield, 1978 -RRB-.
Personality theory has also been criticized on underemphasizing situational and socio-cultural factors such as the competition of resources between groups, and being unable to explain sudden change in attitude and behaviour.this can also be summarized as a distinguish behaviour on the peronnel level.
In children, this type of hearing loss can lead to social isolation for several reasons.
A child who uses sign language, or identifies with the Deaf culture does not generally experience this isolation, particularly if he/she attends a school for the deaf, but may conversely experience isolation from his parents if they do not know, or make an effort to learn sign language.
The point is that analysis and enforcement of least privilege is more involved than it first appears and we should not assume too much about its effectiveness.
Moreover, to maintain the quality education most of the reputed public universities kept themselves extremely selective and each year a large number of students failed to get admitted into the higher educational institutions.
Probe Ministries seeks to maintain humility in its positions on controversial issues : it is `` agnostic '' on the age of the earth ; complementarian in its belief that the Bible supports male leadership in the church and in the family : Should Women Be Pastors ? What Does It Mean for a Wife to Submit ?.
The taxing authority requires and/or performs an appraisal of the monetary value of the property, and tax is assessed in proportion to that value.
Forms of property tax used vary between countries and jurisdictions.
However, the majority of Israelis find a comprehensive right of return for Palestinian refugees to be unacceptable.
After seven Arab nations declared war on Israel in 1948, many Arab leaders encouraged Palestinians to flee, in order to make it easier to rout the Jewish state.
Since most Palestinians chose their status as refugees themselves, some argue that Israel is therefore absolved of responsibility.
Most Israelis hold that the inflow of millions of poor refugees -LRB- almost none of whom were properly integrated by the surrounding Arab countries -RRB- will simply exceed the region 's dwindling resources. Although Israel accepts the right of the Palestinian Diaspora to return into a new Palestinian state, their return into Israel would be a great danger for the stability of the Jewish state ; an influx of Palestinian refugees would lead to the destruction of the state of Israel.
Hare and others take the stance that psychopathy as a syndrome should be considered distinct from the DSM-IV 's antisocial personality disorder construct, even though APD and psychopathy were intended to be equivalent in the DSM-IV.
It is believed that Halifax natives, many of whom were Irish and played hurley, may have introduced the word to Canada.
A ` pun' -LRB- or ` paronomasia' -RRB- is a phrase that deliberately exploits confusion between similar words for rhetorical effect, whether houmorous or serious.
Some critics and readers of the magazine have believed it to have lost its edge, and is now opting to play ` safe' with who and what it covers, focusing more on the popularity of the band rather than the actual music itself.
Other controversial reviews include James Blunt 's ` Back To Bedlam', Red Hot Chili Peppers ` Stadium Arcadium', and Kaiser Chiefs' ` Yours Truly, Angry Mob', all of which have been ridiculed by some press as being over produced, and made simply to please the mainstream audience.
It has been speculated that Savage punched Hogan in the face just prior to WrestleMania IX, causing Hogan to have a swollen eye during the event.
The story was found to be untrue.
In recent years there has been a divergence between the close government relations and British public opinion, and UK perceptions of the relationship have come under increasing strain.
There is a perception that it is a `` one-way '' relationship, i.e. whenever the USA requests significant assistance from the UK it is readily given, but when the UK asks the USA for help it is frequently refused, even when the request is a small one :.
British comedy in particular has a history of satire and parody on the subject, the most iconic example probably being Monty Python film ` Life of Brian'.
Leading indigenous peoples of the Native American separatists argue that the recent declaration of independence is not a secession from the USA, but rather, a reassertion of sovereignty.
The position of North at the top of maps is somewhat arbitrary ; indeed there are many maps with non-standard orientation, such as Medieval maps, polar maps, and Dymaxion maps.
The Vendean clergy almost universally refused to swear the oath and were replaced by clergy appointed and approved by the Revolutionary authorities, known as ` jurors', who were almost universally disliked and condemned as intruders.
Many people who support this concept define embryos and fetuses as human beings which have a right to life, and oppose embryonic stem cell research and abortion.
` Robert W. O'Donnell' is the former Speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives, is widely regarded as one of the most able and gifted members to serve in the legislature.
All major armed `` intervention units '' - most importantly the Bodyguard Unit, the 70 Brigade, the 911 Parachute Regiment, and the Gendarmerie - are either directly or indirectly loyal to Hun Sen..
It is reported that all remaining fixed-wing transport aircraft have been transferred to the Council of Ministers and are no longer operated by the air force.
Military analysts said the Bodyguard Unit is the most important.
It comprises about 4,000 soldiers who are said to train frequently.
Led by Mao Siphan, the unit is also perceived as directly loyal to Hun Sen..
The unit has historical ties to Chief of Staff Ke Kim Yan, although sources say these are now mixed.
The unit 's chain of command is through the Ministry of Defense, but sources say that when push comes to shove the Prime Minister has the final say on how they are deployed, especially in crises.
Russian art is considered by some to be very interesting and unique.
Russians are also known for their sense of humour.
Russian literature was greatly influential to world literature.
Russians also gave the classical music world some very famous composers.
The ` Sea Shepherd Conservation Society' is a non-profit, non-governmental, primarily maritime and self-proclaimed policing organization, and undertakes campaigns which it says are guided by the United Nations World Charter for Nature -LRB- 1982 -RRB- and other statutory laws protecting marine species and environments.
The ability or willingness of the government to fulfill these promises has been questioned by some observers, however, and the status of three central and eastern provinces was a point of contention in the negotiations.
Some observers wondered whether hard line elements in the north would allow the treaty to proceed.
Some claim that use of self-modifying code is not recommended when a viable alternative exists, because such code can be difficult to understand and maintain.
Originally commercial and subscription-driven, ` Shadowbane' was launched in March of 2003, and was the creation of text-MUD veterans J. Todd Coleman, James Nance, Josef Hall, Patrick Blanton and Robert Marsa and a team of 45 programmers, designers and artists.
Sherman 's scorched earth policies have always been highly controversial, and Sherman 's memory has long been reviled by many natives of Georgia, but slaves, many of whom left their plantations to follow his armies, welcomed him as a liberator.
The March to the Sea is considered by many military historians to have demonstrated Sherman 's superb command of military strategies, and his commitment to destroying the Confederacy 's ability to wage further war may well have hastened the end of the conflict.
It is claimed that the move would allow the college to modernise and expand the teaching facilities, update science labs and provide performance/music areas designed for purpose as well as giving vitally required sports facilities.
All of the above is true but the opposition to co-location claim that many of the new facilities will have little, if any, improvement upon the present facilities already enjoyed.
The media have been contacted and we hope for as many people to attened as possible, everyone is welcome but we make this clear, it is to be a PEACEFUL protest.
Some sources say that it originates from the Turkic for `` sleeping land. ''.
The frequency of these problems vary for each individual user ; some users claim that they have never or rarely experienced these problems, while others claim to experience them very often.
Also I advise anyone to stay away from Satman aka FireKing83 on Olympus.
After meeting him you will probably be left with a gaping asshole, due to his fixation with male anus 's.
One could argue that Silly Putty is the most entertaining accident that has ever happened.
Historians now generally think that the actual casualty figures were somewhere between 20,000 and 30,000 civilians.
Critics of Social Security claim that it gives a low rate of return, compared to what is obtained through private retirement accounts.
For example, critics point out that under the Social Security laws as they existed at that time, several thousand employees of Galveston County, Texas were allowed to opt out of the Social Security program in the early 1980s, and have their money placed in a private retirement plan instead.
While some advocates of privatization of Social Security point to the Galveston pension plan as a model for Social Security reform, critics point to a GAO report to the House Ways and Means Committee, which indicates that, for low and middle income employees, the outcome may be less favorable.
This view of a combination of two aspects of human existence is to be considered as an idea influenced by the Christians and the Hindus beliefs wide spread amongst the Muslim laymen, especially amongst the Sufi branch of Islam, which are not presented so in the Islamic texts.
There is no evidence at all that the Quran treats the soul -LRB- Ruh -RRB- as the place of feelings or thinking.
It is something other than the Ruh.
But partly because of the Hellenistic influence and latter the influence of the Hindus in the Indian sub continent and under the influence of the Persians it has become more widespread amongst the Muslims that the source of life which is the Ruh is the centre of feelings and thinking with an independent entity.
In order to understand the concept of soul amongst the laymen Muslims you would need to understand this concept from a Greek-Hindu and Christian perspective.
When you compare it to the Islamic texts you would find out that this more widespread concept of soul is hardly traceable to the Quran itself except if you force yourself to make it seem so.
'' ` Soul and Body' '' is one of the few surviving poems written in Old English that exists in two separate versions.
For thirty years, known within the school as `` The Golden Age of SHS Drama '', Illene Gillander masterfully directed musicals, plays, and musical revues for the SHS stage.
It is uncertain whether or not Gillander will return for a spring production.
However, the Spring Framework was also heavily criticized in 2004 and remains the subject of sometimes heated discussions.
At the time of its first major release many developers and thought leaders saw the Spring Framework as a move away from the traditional programming model ; this was especially true for Enterprise JavaBeans.
To a large extent this removes the need to define its features in an official committee-controlled specification document which is criticized by some.
Albino squirrels are thought by some to be a source of good luck.
The settlement 's terms were not announced, but were believed to be in the CA$ 150,000 range.
; Arabic `` five-pointed '' star : Reputedly, some Arabs have seen some kind of Zionist conspiracy in the six-lobed asterisk glyph of many traditional fonts, hence the insistence on a non-sixfold asterisk.
Though the three races in ` StarCraft' were considered slightly unequal in power when the game was first released, the expansion pack and four balance patches are thought by most players to have created a very stable, balanced game.
Many consider the steam locomotive to be one of the most fascinating mechanical devices ever created and passing steam locomotives often grab the attention of bystanders.
As a result, many consider the name `` adult stem cell '' a misnomer.
Most adult stem cells are lineage-restricted -LRB- multipotent -RRB- and are generally referred to by their tissue origin -LRB- mesenchymal stem cell, adipose-derived stem cell, endothelial stem cell, etc. -RRB-.
There is thought to have been a Jacobin barber who cut the throats of his customers during the French Revolution, though for politics rather than profit.
Likewise, the 15th-century Scottish figure Sawney Bean led a family of thieves who are believed to have feasted on their victims.
It may be relevant that ` Sweeney' could be considered a typically Irish name, just as ` Sawney' is a Scottish one ; ethnic prejudice could underlie both legends.
After the 2003 elections, many observers have also noted that many present councillors tend to behave as self-centered alpha males -LRB- or alpha females, in the case of Councillor Calmy-Rey -RRB- instead of as team players as has historically been the case.
Others, however, contend that such confrontations have always occurred, but now tend to be hyped by media eager to report on juicy political conflicts.
The Club has had many varying and constantly changing political views over the years.
The Sydney University Liberal Club is committed to providing students with the choice to join or not join a student union, and has attracted significant national media coverage in recent years for its pro-VSU counterprotests.
The famous choral finale is Beethoven 's musical representation of Universal Brotherhood and has been characterized by Charles Rosen as a symphony within a symphony.
He is also schooled in a variety of related holistic healing modalities, including music therapy, herbology, hypnotherapy, acupressure and other alternative techniques.
It is speculated that this problem would not occur with the use of V-GURT grain varieties.
As might be expected, critics have abruptly divided on this book, usually as the result of subjective political opinions.
It is believed that it was not renewed for a number of reasons.
` The Highwayman' is not an overly well-known series, but those that saw it generally remember it fondly.
With the demise of Gamma Films, the film has likely passed into the public domain.
Its portrayal of Linna 's characters is widely accepted as canonical.
Elements of this episode generated tremendous controversy among fans of the series.
Many scholars believe that the majority of the `` lost Gospels '' were written decades and in some cases centuries after Matthew, Mark, Luke and John.
But some think one of the long-abandoned texts, the Gospel of Thomas, was very much on the mind of John 's author when he sat down to write in about A.D. 95.
' `` Toe the line ''' is an idiomatic expression with disputed origins.
It is often equated to `` toe the mark, '' which has the same meaning : to conform to a rule or a standard.
The longest-running use of the phrase, often mentioned by tourist guides, is from the British House of Commons where sword-strapped members were instructed to stand behind lines that were better than a sword 's length from their political rivals.
From the time O'Brien took the helm as head coach of Boston College in 1996 until his departure in 2006, the Eagles attained a consistently high level of achievement, both on the field and in the classroom :.
However, the Tupac Inca Yupanqui supposedly commanded a Pacific expedition around 1480, which - if it indeed happened - appears to have visited Easter Island.
The evidence for behavioral effects on humans, although intriguing, is relatively weak.
There have been no randomized clinical trials studying the effects of toxoplasma on human behavior.
Although some researchers have found potentially important associations with toxoplasma, it is possible that these associations merely reflect factors that predispose certain types of people to infection -LRB- e.g., people who exhibit risk-taking behaviors may be more likely to take the risk of eating undercooked meat -RRB-.
' ` AT&T U-verse' is the brand name for a group of services provided over Internet Protocol -LRB- IP -RRB-, including television service, Internet access, and eventually voice telephone service.
Though many American politicians have recently spoken out in favor of working toward energy independence, the discussion among proponents often overlooks the trade implications, focusing more on means and ends.
It is rarely discussed whether the effort would be to make the United States into a net neutral/net exporter of energy, wherein the U.S. would produce and consume equivalent or less energy than it produces, or instead to make the United States completely self-feeding, wherein U.S. consumers would purchase energy solely from U.S. producers, enforced by wide embargos/autarkies or tariffs.
The founder of this organization is Mr. Vidyaakar, who is by now an household name in Chennai when it comes to helping the poor.
Skeptics have argued there may be other reasons than those advanced by the Bush administration for not joining the International Criminal Court.
They point to the role the U.S. administration or U.S. citizens have played in conflicts around the world in the past, i.e. Gulf of Tonkin Incident, My Lai Massacre, aid to Operation Condor through the School of the Americas.
In addition, they point to the possible legal challenges, under the command responsibility principle, as a result of the `` war on terror '' regarding the memos refuting the Geneva Convention, the use of unlawful combatant status, extraordinary rendition and Legality of the 2003 Invasion of Iraq.
Critics of the U.S. administration view these as war crimes and therefore allege that high level officials and the administration itself might be liable for criminal prosecution.
It was directed by Stefan Henszelman to a script by himself and Alexander Korschen, was well received in New York and San Francisco and garnered the 1988 ` Audience Award' at the San Francisco International Lesbian & Gay Film Festival.
They are numerous cases of rapes conducted on Jewish women and girls by German soldiers during Invasion of Poland.
This strategy was used by various civilizations, such as the Romans and the Greeks.
This approach has been largely abandoned in modern day militaries due to the fact that modern weapons would allow the dogs to be destroyed almost immediately, as on Okinawa when US soldiers quickly eliminated a platoon of Japanese soldiers and their dogs.
Ethics questions have also been raised about the uses of dogs in this way.
The epithet `` War on Drugs '' has been condemned as being propaganda to justify military or paramilitary operations under the guise of a noble cause ; in particular, Noam Chomsky points out that the term is an example of synecdoche referring to operations against suspected producers, traders and/or users of certain substances.
Of all the parents close to the West Memphis 3 case, John Mark Byers has been the most outspoken about the convictions, and some people have claimed that he himself was one of the `` real murderers ''.
Although Gardner claimed to have borrowed King Paulsol 's concepts, some would argue Gardner was truly referencing Crowley.
Apparently, he was aware of the competence of a number of competing manufacturers near to his plant on the Thames, and decided that any patent would quickly be infringed by all his rivals.
Some may find the scientific method to be a satisfactory path to a goal of gaining wisdom.
Life relies on the transmission of biochemical information to the next generation, and the presence of xenoestrogens may interfere with this transgenerational information process through `` chemical confusion '' -LRB- Vidaeff and Sever -RRB-.
According to some historians of philosophy, Zeno 's paradoxes were a major problem for ancient and medieval philosophers.
