The' .338 Winchester Magnum' was introduced in 1958 by Winchester Repeating Arms Company.
It is also a useful round for thin-skinned African game.
The boundary of the 120-cell is composed of 120 dodecahedral cells with 4 meeting at each vertex.
In 2006, Multipower International, Inc. restored two Chinese QJ -LRB- 2-10-2 -RRB- steam locomotives to FRA Part 230 specifications and delivered them to Railroad Development Corp..
In Cincinatti between February 1995 and April 2001, fifteen black males under the age of 40 were killed by police or died in custody.
The Manifesto of Ascendancy for the Modern American Nigger by John Ridley, published in Esquire'Klepal, Dan and Andrews, Cindi.
`` Stories of 15 black men killed by police since 1995 '' The Cincinnati Enquirer, 15 April 2001. 29 October 2006. During the time span cited, regardless of the crime or whether or not white-suspects resisted, no whites died in police custody.
Of the fifteen black men, three -LRB- including Thomas -RRB- did not possess or employ any weapons against police during the confrontations.
During these confrontation four police officers were killed or wounded.
No police were ever found guilty through any civil or criminal trials as a result of these incidents, and in only one case were the police officers involved reprimanded and given extra training -LRB- officers Michael Miller III and Brent McCurley, in the case of the death of Michael Carpenter -RRB-.
The tournament was won by Australia who defeated India in the final.
In 1710, the regiment was represented at the sieges of Douai, Béthune, Aire and St. Venant.
The reggae dub band Easy Star All-Stars has covered the entire Sgt. Pepper 's album, including the song `` A Day in the Life. ''.
In German the tank was called ` Sturmpanzer-Kraftwagen' -LRB- roughly `` assault armoured motor vehicle '' -RRB-.
Because the car recharges its batteries when the throttle is released -- slowing sharply as energy is recaptured -- it can be driven hard using only the accelerator pedal.
Also, if the car detects a turn with more than half a ` g' - force -LRB- 5 m/s ² -RRB-, it eases the rear-wheel regenerative braking to prevent slides.
The word ` Abegweit' is derived from the Mi ` kmaq word for Prince Edward Island, ` Epekwit ` k', meaning `` cradled -LRB- or cradle -RRB- on the waves. ''.
One advertisement, for example, features a dog judging and alienating an individual for smoking marijuana, reinforcing social prejudice and detachment from teen marijuana users, instead of advocating support systems.
In 1872 he founded his own paper, `` De Standaard '' -LRB- `` the Standard '' -RRB-.
This paper would lay the foundation for the network of reformed organization, -LRB- the reformed pillar -RRB-, which Kuyper would found.
Epiphanius' Panarion 29.4 describes James as a Nazirite.
The ` Abraham Lincoln' Strike Group' or Carrier Strike Group 9 is the collection of United States Navy ships and aircraft built around the aircraft carrier.
This insulates client code from object creation by having clients ask a factory object to create an object of the desired abstract type and to return an abstract pointer to the object.
Acquanetta succumbed to complications of Alzheimer 's disease shortly after 4 a.m. on August 16, 2004, at Hawthorn Court in Ahwatukee, Arizona.
Later Greeks always detected that there was something alien and uncanny about the aegis.
This means that current prospects for significant, long-term investment in agriculture -- particularly the purchase of agricultural machinery and grain-storage facilities -- are somewhat dim.
Land reform has been evolving in Russia since the basic right to own farmland was established in 1993, but `` landowners '' are still unable to use land as collateral in securing a loan.
The situation, however, is not one that can be resolved quickly or easily through legislation alone.
There is no mechanism currently in place to enable banks to evaluate the value of land based on its productivity before issuing loans, and banks likely would be reluctant to use land as collateral regardless of legislation.
Furthermore, there are restrictions against non-agricultural use of land that is currently used for agriculture : if land is used for other purposes, the owner loses the title to the land.
This imposes a limit on the land 's `` re-sellability, '' and, in turn, its value.
` Alabama' is a Grammy Award-winning country music band that originated in Fort Payne, Alabama, United States.
They were the most commercially successful country act in the 1980s and remain one of the bestselling American musical acts of all time.
He has been head of the parliamentary British-Cyprus group -LRB- APPG -RRB-.
The ` Albatros C.I' was the first of the successful C-series of two-seat general-purpose biplanes built by Albatros Flugzeugwerke during World War I. Based on the unarmed Albatros B.II, the C.I reversed the pilot and observer seating so that the observer occupied the rear cockpit which was fitted with a ring-mounted 7.92 mm -LRB- .312 in -RRB- Parabellum MG14 machine gun.
In 1896 Agassiz visited Fiji and Queensland and inspected the Great Barrier Reef, publishing a paper on the subject in 1898.
Today he lives in Belarus and is the Head of the Inter-University Department of Sport Excellence of the Belarusian State University of Informatics and Radioelectronics and also Vice-president of the Belarus Olympic Committee.
Alexander Medved' is also the Olympic coach for the Belarusian freestyle wrestling team.
In July 1943, he assumed command of the 1st Marine Amphibious Corps and commanded this organization in the landing at Empress Augusta Bay, Bougainville, Northern Solomon Islands, on November 1, 1943.
Upon establishing the initial beachhead, he relinquished command and returned to Washington, D.C. as Commandant-designate.
This short helped set the stage for what was to come in the later Alice Comedies, as it established the world as a playful dream, and also introduced the elements which would soon define the series.
On December 1, 2007, Pronti and Kalmani were brought to Los Angeles under the title `` Alice Deejay '' for `` Winter Fresh '' by Fresh Entertainment.
Nevil Shute 's novel' A Town Like Alice', and the resulting film and television miniseries, takes its name from Alice Springs, although little of the action takes place there.
The local library is the Nevil Shute Memorial Library.
Martin Luther also argued that the debate was irrelevant, not because the words do not clearly mean virgin, but because ` almah' and ` bethulah' were functional synonyms.
Diallo had come to New York City to study computer science, but had not enrolled in school.
The ` American White Pelican' or ` Rough-billed Pelican' -LRB- ` Pelecanus erythrorhynchos' -RRB- is a large aquatic bird from the order Pelecaniformes.
It breeds in interior North America, moving south and to the coasts, up to Central America, in winter.
After her retirement from wrestling in 2006, she and then-boyfriend Shane Morton formed the punk rock band The Luchagors.
The band released a CD on September 11, 2007.
There in the lands of ancient Egypt is the first evidence for stools, beds, and tables -LRB- such as from the tombs similar to Tutenkhamen 's.
Recovered Ancient Egyptian furniture includes a third millennium B.C. bed discovered in the Tarkhan Tomb, a c. 2550 B.C. gilded set from the tomb of Queen Hetepheres, and a c. 1550 B.C. stool from Thebes.
He was the son of Emil Victor Schau Lassen and Suzanne Maria Signe Lassen, of Nyhavn, Copenhagen, Denmark.
He was first cousin of the German Major Axel von dem Bussche, who plotted to kill Hitler in November 1943.
` Anglo-Celtic' is a macro-cultural term used to collectively describe the cultures native to the Britain and Ireland, and the significant diasporas located in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa and the United States.
The derivative term ` Anglo-Celtic Islands' is also used.
It is additionally used in the context of ` Anglo-Celtic Warfare' to describe the period of warfare in Britain between 410 and 1066 CE.
It is also used as a notional racial category.
In December 1978, she resigned from ` The Sunday Times' and returned home to Crosby to recover from her alcoholism.
She then began working for the ` Liverpool Echo.'.
Health Speculation in later yearsA medical mishap would change the course of Eden 's life forever.
During an operation in 1953 to remove Eden 's gallstones, the surgeon damaged his bile duct.
This blunder made Eden vulnerable to recurrent infections and attacks of violent pain and fevers.
To overcome this weakness Eden was prescribed the wonder drug of the 1950s - Benzedrine.
Regarded by doctors in the 1950s as a harmless stimulant, it belongs to the family of drugs called amphetamines -- the illegal drug we now call speed.
During this time amphetamines were prescribed and used in a very casual way.
In penitentiaries, the percentage is estimated to be as high as 75 percent.
-LCB- Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders -RCB- Perhaps not surprisingly, the prevalence of the disorder is even higher in selected populations, such as people in prisons -LRB- who include many violent offenders -RRB- -LRB- Hare 1983 -RRB-.
Similarly, the prevalence of ASPD is higher among patients in alcohol or other drug -LRB- AOD -RRB- abuse treatment programs than in the general population -LRB- Hare 1983 -RRB-, suggesting a link between ASPD and AOD abuse and dependence.
In 2005 the Aptos High girls and boys cross country team won the CCS championship and the boys finished third at state championships while the girls were crowned state champions.
He won the Gold Medal from the Bombay Art Society in the same year.
He travelled a lot through Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat and in the Himalayas, enjoying the patronage of various royal families of the time.
His paintings included landscapes, portraits and scenes from the life of the Maharajas -LRB- Kings -RRB-, historical subjects and incidents from the Indian Hindu epics - the Ramayana and the Mahabharata.
His paintings have been acquired by the Buckingham Palace, London, the South Kensington Museum -LRB- now known as the Victoria and Albert Museum -RRB-.
Few also exist in the collections of the Museums at Sangli, Maharashtra Bikaner, Rajasthan, the Jodhpur Fort and the Royal Palace at Jaipur.
His paintings are much sought after and have surfaced in various auctions in recent years.
Tokyo has had many including the 4,000 m X-Seed 4000, which are listed -LSB- here -RSB-.
They were known for their left-wing Socialist and Communist lyrics.
Their singer was the reek born Demetrio Stratos.
Social gatherings focused around sumptuous presentations of course after course of elaborately prepared and well-seasoned food.
The hosts will often put morsels on a guest 's plate whenever it is empty or fill his or her glass when it gets low.
After a helping or two it is acceptable to refuse politely or, more simply, just leave a little uneaten food.
Alcohol such as cognac, vodka, and red wine are usually served during meals and gatherings.
In June 2007 Arriva won a nine-year franchise for the ` Pågatåg' regional rail services in Skåne County, south Sweden.
Section 2 provides that the trial of crimes, except impeachment cases, must be by jury.
The trial must be held in the state where the crime was committed, or, if it was not committed in any particular state, in such a place as should have been previously set forth by the Congress.
2009-09-18T18 :12:20 Z.
William Barrett went missing on May 16, 1981, and his body was found close to his home.
The Atlanta Child Killer 's last known victim was Nathaniel Cater, who was 27 years old.
In 2002, the A8L received standard xenon high-intensity discharge lamp -LRB- HID -RRB- headlights, and a heated steering wheel.
A tyre pressure monitoring system -LRB- TPMS -RRB-, an updated Symphony II stereo, and new exterior colours were also added.
The ` Australian Swamp Rat' -LRB- ` Rattus lutreolus' -RRB- is a species of rat native to the area around Melbourne. they currently live primarily in the outer urban areas East of Melbourne.
The Swamp Rat can be seen at places like the Healesville Sanctuary, where they live in the grounds.

This is referred to as the ideomotor effect.
` Avisa Nordland' is a newspaper published in Bodø, Norway.
It was established through a controversial merger of the two competing newspapers ` Nordlandsposten' and ` Nordlands Framtid'.
Look East moved to The Forum on 29 September 2003, having previously been based in St Catherine 's Close, Norwich.
Daly and Phillips were staff of the Met Office 's former Northern Ireland office based at RAF Aldergrove.
Baker Bowl was the first field of the Philadelphia Eagles who played home games at the stadium from 1933 through 1935.
In their four years at Baker Bowl, the Eagles had a record of 3-11-1.
Some U.N. employees and delegates are expressing their resentment at Ban 's favoritism in the appointment of his fellow South Korean nationals in key posts.
Previous U.N. chiefs such as Kurt Waldheim -LRB- Austria -RRB-, Javier Perez de Cuellar -LRB- Peru -RRB- and Boutros Boutros-Ghali -LRB- Egypt -RRB- brought small teams of trusted aides or clerical workers from their country 's Foreign Ministry.
In response, Ban and his aides claimed that allegations of favoritism are wrong, and that some of the harshest criticisms against him have undercurrents of racism.
He said that the South Korean nationals he had appointed -- including Choi Young-jin, who has served as a high-ranking official in the United Nation 's peacekeeping department -- are highly qualified for their positions.
The Bank of Scotland, like the other Scottish banks, historically saw itself as an institution of lowland Scottish establishment.
Although it had a presence in every major Scottish Gaelic community, it was still operating exclusively in English in the early 1970s.
In 1972, Gaelic activist Iain Noble persuaded the bank to issue him with its first Gaelic -LRB- actually bilingual -RRB- cheque-book.
These have since become popular, and the Royal Bank soon followed suit.
There is a scene where the camera pans upward over Faye Dunaway 's legs.
The film inspired an album, also titled ` Barfly', by the ska punk band, Buck-O-Nine.
Charles Bukowski later dramatized his experiences surrounding the film in the book Hollywood.
The punk rock group NOFX wrote a song on Bukowski titled `` Green Corn '' in reference to the movie.
An episode of Mission Hill, Andy French mentions the movie, expecting it to have a great `` barf scene '' since he pronounced it `` Barf-ly. ''.
Now out of print, though a petition has started to get the DVD re-released.
The ` Battle of Alexandria' or ` Battle of Canope', fought on March 21, 1801 between the French army under General Menou and the British expeditionary corps under Sir Ralph Abercrombie, took place near the ruins of Nicopolis, on the narrow spit of land between the sea and Lake Abukir, along which the British troops had advanced towards Alexandria after the actions of Abukir on March 8 and Mandora on March 13.
General panic now seized the Allied army and it abandoned the field in any and all possible directions.
A famous yet frightful episode transpired during this retreat : Russian forces that had been defeated by the French right withdrew south towards Vienna via the Satschan frozen ponds.
French artillery pounded towards the men, but Napoleon redirected his gunners to fire at the ice.
The men drowned in the viciously cold ponds, dozens of artillery pieces going down along with them.
Estimates on how many guns were captured differ ; there may have been as low as 38 and as high as over 100.
Sources also differ on casualties, with figures ranging from as low as 200 to as high as 2,000 dead.
Because Napoleon exaggerated this incident in his report of the battle, the low numbers may be more accurate, although doubt remains as to whether they are fully correct.
At dawn, the Romans started to cross the river Siris.
The Roman cavalry attacked on the flanks the scouts and light infantry, who were forced to flee.
` Battlefield : Bad Company' -LRB- abbreviated ` BFBC' -RRB- is a first-person shooter under development by Digital Illusions CE.
Currently planned for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, Bad Company will be the first Battlefield game to be developed specifically for History of next-gen consoles.
A teaser trailer was released on February 28, 2007 displaying destructible environments and gameplay visuals.
A second trailer was released on September 6, 2007 showing First Person gameplay and the first glimpse of the storyline.
Bell Gardens is bordered by Bell and Cudahy on the west, Commerce on the north and northeast, Downey on the southeast, and South Gate on the southwest.
Started by Howard Harris more than 46 years ago, it has seen more than 4 generations.
On the corner of Magnolia Street and Cornwall, in front of the Federal Building, every Friday starting at 4pm and lasting until usually about 6pm.
Weber received the Thorne Music Award in 1965.
He authored his own memoirs, ` How I Took 63 Years to Commit Suicide', the year he died.
Berkeley Square can be easily reached from Green Park tube station on the Piccadilly, Jubilee and Victoria lines, and Bond Street tube station on the Central and Jubilee lines.
London Buses route 8 also passes the square.
Shabazz was a member of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc..
The results thus became indirectly known in Europe by the end of the 12th century, but the text itself was not introduced until much later.
The Mughal emperor Akbar commissioned a famous Persian translation of the ` Lilvati' in 1587.
As adjutant general of the Alabama National Guard, he helped organize the 1st Alabama Cavalry and served on the Mexican border in 1916.
In World War I, Graves commanded the 117th U.S. Field Artillery in France, and upon his return to Alabama, he helped organize the state section of the American Legion.
The first serious attempt by the UCI to introduce mandatory helmet use in 1991 was met with strong opposition from the riders.
An attempt to enforce the rule at the 1991 Paris -- Nice race resulted in a riders' strike, forcing the UCI to abandon the idea.
One critic of the Bilderberg meetings, American conspiracy theorist radio host Alex Jones, claims that the group intends to dissolve the sovereignty of the United States and other countries into a supra-national structure similar to the European Union or a possible North American Union structured around the NAFTA trade agreements.'.
Endgame.
` Duane Charles `` Bill '' Parcells' -LRB- born August 22, 1941 in Englewood, New Jersey -RRB-, is a retired American football head coach, last coaching the Dallas Cowboys of the National Football League.
Parcells won two Super Bowl rings with the New York Giants in Super Bowl XXI and Super Bowl XXV.
He announced his third retirement from football on January 22, 2007.
Graham does have two children from a previous marriage, however, a son named Joey -LRB- born in 1975 -RRB- and a daughter named Capella -LRB- born in 1972 -RRB-.
In the ` septibranchs' the inhalant siphon is surrounded by vibration-sensitive tentacles for detecting prey.
` Bob Boughner' -LRB- born March 8, 1971, in Windsor, Ontario, Canada -RRB-, nicknamed The Boogieman, is a retired professional ice hockey defenceman and current head coach of the Ontario Hockey League 's Windsor Spitfires.
Body cleansing proponents claim numerous health benefits, including the benefit to various common ailments such as acne, allergies, colitis and Crohn 's disease, among other conditions.
The nature of the bombing of Dresden has made it a unique point of contention and debate.

When displayed inside a home, a formal bonsai display will be placed within a tokonoma.
The Indian government has now decided to implement recommendations to restrict each security agency to its mandate.
Thus BSF battalions in Jammu and Kashmir are gradually being withdrawn from counter-insurgency duties and sent back to guard the borders.
They are being replaced by fresh units from the Central Reserve Police Force -LRB- CRPF -RRB- that have undergone specialized training in counter-terrorism.
Louis Antoine de Bougainville named the island after himself.
On May 28 1974 the square was the location of a terrorist bombing.
` Duomo Vecchio' -LRB- `` Old Cathedral '' -RRB-, also known as ` La Rotonda'.
It is an exteriorly rusticated Romanesque church, striking for its circular shape.
The main structure was built in the 11th century on the ruins of an earlier basilica.
Near the entrance is the pink Veronese marble sarcophagus of Berardo Maggi, while in the presbitery is the entrance to the crypt of San Filastrio.
The structure houses paintings of the ` Assumption', the ` Evangelists Luke and Mark', and ` Feast of the Paschal Lamb', and ` Eli and the Angel' by Alessandro Bonvicino -LRB- known as ` il Moretto' -RRB- ; two canvasses by Girolamo Romanino, and other paintings by Palma il Giovane, Francesco Maffei, Bonvicino, and others -LSB- Duomo Vecchio -RSB-.
` Duomo Nuovo' -LRB- `` New Cathedral '' -RRB- : Construction on the new cathedral began in 1604 and continued till 1825.
While initially a contract was awarded to Palladio, economic shortfalls awarded the project, still completed in a Palladian style, to the young Brescian architect Giovanni Battista Lantana, with decorative projects were directed mainly by Pietro Maria Bagnadore.
The facade is mainly owed to the designs Giovanni Battista and Antonio Marchetti, while the cupola was designed by Luigi Cagnola.
Interior frescoes including the ` Marriage, Visitation, and Birth of the Virgin', as well as the ` Sacrifice of Isaac', were frescoed by Bonvicino.
The main attractions is the ` Arch of Sts. Apollonius and Filastrius' -LRB- 1510 -RRB-.
` Casa di ricchioni', a tourist-friendly house in the western part of the province, known for it 's window displays of outlandish homosexual behaviour.
Onlookers are invited to participate in what locals refer to as ` all night anal anarchy'.
The ` Broletto', formerly the Town Hall.
It is a massive building of the 12th and 13th centuries with a lofty tower.
These include the Capitoline Temple, built by Vespasianus in 73 AD.
The ` monastery of San Salvatore' -LRB- os ` Santa Giulia' -RRB-, dating from the Lombard age but later renovated several times.
` Santa Maria dei Miracoli' -LRB- 1488-1523 -RRB-, with a fine façade by Giovanni Antonio Amadeo, decorated with bas-reliefs and a Renaissance ` peristilium'.
` Artemia' were first discovered in Lymington, England, in 1755.
Faith No More played their first reunion show here on June 10, 2009.
2008 Brooke was the lead in `` Smoke Jumper '' about a female ex-firefighter turned fire jumper.

A plate of home-made buffalo wings ` Buffalo wings', ` chicken wings', ` hot wings' -LRB- in the Southern United States -RRB-, or simply ` wings' are chicken wing sections -LRB- called flats and drum sticks -RRB- that are deep fried and coated in sauce.
Standard Buffalo sauce is composed of only two ingredients : two ingredients : a vinegar-based cayenne pepper hot sauce and butter.
Buffalo wings are traditionally served with cut celery and blue cheese dressing.
Buffalo wings are named after the city of Buffalo, New York, where they originated.
In Buffalo, locals do not call them `` Buffalo wings '', but rather just `` wings '' or sometimes `` chicken wings ''.
Primary and Intermediate EducationBulacan has a total of 473 public Elementary schools, 435 public schools under the Department of Education -LRB- DEPED -RRB- Division of Bulacan and 38 public schools under the Division of City Schools of Malolos.
Button Bay State Park has been a state park since 1964.
The ` Central Union of Marine Underwriters' -LRB- CEFOR -RRB- was founded August 15, 1911 by Norwegian and foreign insurance companies and is the marine insurance market organization of Norway.
CIA begins to sponsor and train the Civilian Irregular Defense Group in the South Central Highlands.
A Special National Intelligence Estimate -LRB- SNIE -RRB- issued in May postulated that a short but intense air and naval campaign against the DRV would deter an invasion of the South, although not stop activities there.
It also estimated that this would be a strong morale boost to the RVN.
The campaign described, however, was different than the actual gradual attacks that resulted from the Gulf of Tonkin incident in August.
Cairo was founded by the Cairo City & Canal Company in 1837, and incorporated as a city in 1858.
For 15 years the town grew slowly, but the sale of lots -LRB- commencing in 1853 -RRB- and the completion of the Illinois Central Railroad attracted settlers.
Protestants often appeal to the Bible 's apparent recognition of all Christian believers as saints, in Acts and in Paul 's letters.
This version ran until March 31, 1989 -LRB- 845 episodes -RRB-. An accompanying weeknight television syndicated version began on September 8, 1986, was hosted by Bill Rafferty, and lasted one season.
Another syndicated revival, with different rules than the previous versions, was hosted by Pat Bullard and premiered on September 17, 2001, but was cancelled by year 's end after 13 weeks of episodes.
In the IPA 's, the cardinal vowels have the same numbers used above, but added to 300.
On May 5, 2005, he received the Charlemagne Award of the city of Aachen.
On June 15, 2005, he was awarded an honorary doctorate by the École Normale Supérieure of Paris.
The television sitcom ` Sex and the City' focused further on casual sexual relationships.The intent of a casual relationship can vary : sometimes to relieve sexual frustrations and other times simply as a friendship or part-time relationship, which includes sexual activity when wished.
Usually a casual relationship is not intended as a monogamous relationship.
It is also not always synonymous with casual sex, since it might even not include sex.
One question that pet owners argue about is if cats are smarter than dogs.
On the via Salaria, the Catacombs of via Anapo are datable to the end of the 3rd or the beginning of the 4th century, and contain diverse frescoes of biblical subjects.
He then explained the cause of such differences in accordance with the law of cause and effect.
The early inhabitants of Cavite City were the Tagalogs ruled by the Kampilan and the bullhorn of a datu, the tribal form of government.

A range war develops between the cattle ranchers led by the Venneford cowboys, farmers led by Hans Brumbaugh, and sheep herders led by new settler, Messmore Garrett -LRB- Clint Ritchie -RRB-.
New town sheriff Axel Dumire -LRB- Brian Keith -RRB- tries to settle the conflict peacefully but it soon escalates into violence.
` Centro Superior de Información de la Defensa' -LRB- CESID -RRB- was the Spanish intelligence agency before the current Centro Nacional de Inteligencia -LRB- CNI -RRB- took over as its successor in 2002.
In 1929, the Boy Scouts Association, Hong Kong Branch purchased land for the Chai Wan Campsite where Chai Wan Park is now situated.
The land returned to Hong Kong Government for development in the early 1970s.
U.S. Route 212 and Minnesota State Highways 5 and 41 are three of the main routes in the city.
He served as deputy executive chairman of the UN Special Commission on Iraq from 1993 to 2000 and deputy head of the United Nations weapons inspections team from 2003 to January 23, 2005.
Born in Cambridge, Massachusetts, he graduated the Hopkinson School started by his father.
He began to draw for the ` Harvard Lampoon' upon his entrance to Harvard in 1888, and in 1891, he moved to New York to study at the Art Students' League where he worked with John Henry Twachtman and H. Siddons Mowbray.
Its seal shows its protector, Emperor Charles IV, with his coats of arms as King of the Romans and King of Bohemia kneeling in front of St. Wenceslas, the patron saint of Bohemia.
It is surrounded by the inscription, ` Sigillum Universitatis Scolarium Studii Pragensis' -LRB-, -RRB-.
The toll-free Chengjin Expressway in the east of Chengdu is 38.7 km long, with six lines and designed for travel at 80 km/h.
After it opens to the public, it will take only about half an hour to drive from the downtown Chengdu to Jintang, half the time of the current journey.
The Javan sub-species, 'M. l. quinticolor', differs in having the whole space from the bill down to the black pectoral band pure yellow without any chestnut, and in having the tail blue.
Huhne has spoken of the need to `` roll back -LSB- Labour 's -RSB- security-obsessed surveillance state ''.
Christafari 's claim to be counter cult implies that Rastafari is a cult, their call to a wayward generation implies that the Rastas are wayward or a lost generation while their claim to evangelize the word of God to Rastas implies that Rastas do n't have the word of God.
They dislike the accusations that by using cannabis Rastas indulge in occult practice.
Mohr 's claim to have been a Rastafarian while smoking cocaine is considered not true as rastafarian culture strongly rejects cocaine use.
Since the 1980s, there have been several instances in the U.S. and Canada where official public mention and reference to a Christmas tree was renamed to `` holiday tree '' for various reasons, mostly for enforcement of separation of church and state or a recognition of cultural and religious diversity.
He has been praised for his orchestration skills, particularly with percussion.
He often quotes works of other composers -LRB- e.g., his Symphony # 1, composed in 1986, incorporates quotations from the music of Bruckner and Shostakovich -RRB-.
The disorder is marked by chronic mental and physical exhaustion, often severe, and by other specific symptoms, arising in previously healthy and active persons.
Despite promising avenues of medical research, there remains no objective medical assay or pathological finding which is widely accepted to be diagnostic of CFS.
It remains largely a diagnosis of exclusion, made on the basis of patient history and symptomatic criteria, although a number of tests exist which can help aid diagnosis.
Although there is agreement on the genuine threat to health, happiness, and productivity posed by CFS, various physicians' groups, researchers, and patient activists champion very different nomenclature, diagnostic criteria, etiologic hypotheses, and favored treatments, resulting in ongoing controversy about nearly all aspects of the disorder.
The `` First Generation '' Design was based on the 1987 concept Lamborghini Portofino.
The cab-forward design was characterized by the long, low-slung windshield and relatively short overhangs.
The wheels where effectively pushed to the corners of the car, creating a much larger passenger cabin than the contemporaries of the time.
April 27, 1978 A military coup d'état was led by the unified communist parties of Khalq and Parcham, after the death of one of Parcham 's prominent members.
The motto of Clackmannanshire is' `` Look Aboot Ye ''' -LRB- ` Circumspice' in Latin -RRB-.
In 2007 a re-branding exercise led to the area adopting the slogan' `` More Than You Imagine '''.
Gator 's end user license agreement attempts to disallow its manual removal by prohibiting `` unauthorized means '' of uninstallation.
This substitution of `` cline '' for `` race '' or `` subspecies '' is technically incorrect because the word `` cline '' refers only to the geographic density gradient of a single feature, while the words `` race, '' `` subspecies, '' etc., assume replicable clusters of features.
On the other hand, using the term `` cline '' in substitution for `` race '' may be appropriate if the speaker understands racial distinctions more in terms of groupable variations on a continuum.
In line with the example above from linguistics, human skin color may be described in terms of the following cline : `` white '', `` cream '', `` olive '', `` tan '', `` brown '', `` black '', et cetera with a myriad intermediates.
See the main article Race for details on this point.
Though fireproofing had been incorporated in the original construction, more was added after a fire in 1975 that spread to six floors before being extinguished.
Early tests conducted on steel beams from the WTC show they generally met or were stronger than design requirements.
As newspapers change, the changes have affected comic strips.
In 2001, Hewlett-Packard -LRB- HP-UX -RRB- and Sun -LRB- Solaris -RRB- announced that they would phase out CDE as the standard desktop on their workstations in favor of GNOME.
Solaris 10, released in early 2005, includes both CDE and the GNOME-based Java Desktop System.
Future releases of Solaris will be based on the OpenSolaris open source project, which states that there is no plan to make the Solaris CDE `` consolidation '' -LRB- OS component -RRB- available as open source.
On October 2 the Halim base was `` captured '' by the army.
Otherwise the official line of PKI at the time was that the G30S was an internal affair within the armed forces.
Currently based in Miami, Florida, CompUSA operates 23 retail stores in Florida, Texas, Illinois, and Puerto Rico.
Eleven former Tiger Direct locations and two new locations were brought under the CompUSA banner in the summer of 2008 for a total of 30 stores.
In the UK, no medical schools offer courses that teach the clinical practice of alternative medicine.
Teaching is based mostly on theory and understanding alternative medicine, with emphasis on being able to communicate with alternative medicine specialists.
The -LSB- British Medical Acupuncture Society -RSB-, which offers medical acupuncture certificates, is one such example, as is the College of Naturopathic Medicine UK and Ireland.
Inside Conseco Fieldhouse during an Indiana Pacers preseason game.
It is designed after Hinkle Fieldhouse at Butler University and the other great fieldhouses that covered the state of Indiana with standing room only crowds on Friday nights in the formative years of high school basketball.
It is thus a polycentric form of agglomeration.
` Donald Corey Patterson' -LRB- born August 13, 1979 in Atlanta, Georgia -RRB- is an American baseball player who last played as an outfielder for the Baltimore Orioles in 2007.
He is currently a free agent.
` Coromandel' is the name of a town and harbour on the western side of the Coromandel Peninsula, which is on the east coast of the North Island of New Zealand.
They are 75 kilometres east of the city of Auckland, although the road between them, which winds around the Firth of Thames and Hauraki Gulf coasts, is 190 km long.
In 1868 Cortland became the home of the Cortland Normal School, now the State University of New York at Cortland.
In 1972 the American Academy of Arts and Letters admitted Nivola as its first non-American member.
In 1978 the University of California, Berkeley gave him a chair at its Art Department.
The Australian cricketer Dennis_Lillee attempted to use an aluminium metal bat, but any improvement upon the traditional willow could not compensate for the noise it made when it impacted upon the ball.
The rules of cricket now stipulate that the blade of a bat must be made solely of wood, however more recently than Dennis Lillee, Ricky Ponting used a bat -LRB- the kookaburra kahuna icon -RRB- with a carbon composite ` meat' -LRB- the large protruding area of wood out the back face -RRB- the bat was altered by kookaburra in conjunction with the ICC 's demand.
And yet the conviction is governed merely by the country native to each ; to the South German ecclesiastic the truth of the Catholic dogma is quite obvious, to the North German, the Protestant.
If then, these convictions are based on objective reasons, the reasons must be climatic, and thrive, like plants, some only here, some only there.
The convictions of those who are thus locally convinced are taken on trust and believed by the masses everywhere.'.
This view proposes that the idea of Jesus was the Jewish manifestation of a pan-hellenic cult, known as Osiris-Dionysus, which acknowledged the non-historic nature of the figure, using it instead as a teaching device.
The leaders of the Ustasha had declared war for extermination of Serb population from the territory of NDH, as Vladimir Singer, head of the secret police `` Ustaška nadzorna služba '' -LRB- UNS -RRB- had said that one third of the Serbs -LRB- living in the NDH -RRB- should be expelled, another third killed, and the final third converted.
Still, converts to the Croat Orthodox Church were few.
Crytek banned the from CryMod, InCrysis, and Crysis-Online.
Crytek made this decision because in Germany 's rating system, the mod would turn Crysis into an `` 18 + '' title.
The United States government became increasingly hostile towards the Castro-led government of Cuba throughout 1959.
The state even has its own brand of potato chip, called Crab Chips.
She has been with partner Jodie Foster for over 14 years.
Retrieved December 13, 2007. They met on the set of the film ` Sommersby', in which Bernard was a production coordinator.
She has since formally adopted Foster 's two sons, the paternity of both have not been made public.
Bernard 's brother, Dustin, works in the film industry as an assistant director.
Since the arrival of the British on the island of Cyprus, the `` Cyprus Dispute '' was identified as the conflict between the peoples of Cyprus and Great Britain as a colonial ruler.
The core of the dispute was Cypriots demand for self determination.
Britain shifted the `` Cyprus Dispute '' from a colonial dispute to a dispute between Turks and GreeksAnthony Eden, `` Memoirs, Full Circle, Cassell, London 1960 although Britain had denounced the agreement between herself and Turkey over Cyprus, and declared Cyprus as a British colony.
Today, the problem has involved Turkey, Greece, the United Kingdom, the USA, the United Nations and recently the European Union.
Since 1974 the internationally recognised Republic of Cyprus has been divided.
The dividing line which cuts across the country has created a physical and social barrier between the Greek and Turkish Cypriot Communities.
The Turkish Cypriot community declared itself Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, condemned by UN Security Council Resolutions as legally invalid.
It is recognised only by Turkey.
` Dance of Death' is Iron Maiden 's 13th studio album, released first in Japan on September 2 and rest of the world on September 8, 2003.
Rauschenberg did not collect pledges in advance that would be payable if he succeeded.
His early fundraising was hindered by the question as to whether he would complete the project, and once the project was completed, public attention quickly turned to other matters.
In 1969, Shanefield obtained US Patent 3,448,302 claiming the first method for reliable operation of the `` phase change memory. ''.
He amassed 41 yellow cards and four red cards for Real Madrid.
` ` David Peace' is a British author born in Ossett, West Yorkshire in 1967.
His works include the `` Red-Riding Quartet '', ` GB84' and ` The Damned Utd'.
In 2003 David Peace was named as a Best of Young British Novelists by Granta.
GB84 won the world 's oldest literary prize, The James Tait Black Memorial Prize for Fiction.
` Day-Age Creationism' holds that the six days referred to in the Genesis account of creation are not earth-based 24-hour days, but rather are much longer periods -LRB- of thousands or millions of years -RRB-.
Sports rating the pay-per-view 4 out of 10 stars, stating `` the two matches that were promoted saved this thing from being a debacle. ''.
In November 2004, Maura Davis, Ryan Rapsys, Stephen Howard and new member Matt Clark formed the band Bella Lea.
They later changed their name to Ambulette.
In the 2005-06 season, the Nuggets also introduced an alternate navy blue uniform, with a new Nuggets throwback script in gold, with powder blue outlining.
The brand drug incorporating 20 % monobenzone is Benoquin, made by ICN.
. NET Windows Forms ComponentsWhen the Microsoft Visual Studio. NET 2002 was in early Beta stages, Developer Express had already started to research the forthcoming. NET Framework and develop components for it.
Once again, the product prefixes were changed to distinguish between components for different platforms.. NET framework components got the Xtra prefix.
Whittington was shot in the face, neck, and upper torso with birdshot pellets from a gauge Perazzi shotgun.First public news of the incident was called in to the Corpus Christi Caller-Times on February 12, 2006, by ranch owner Katharine Armstrong.
The Bush administration disclosed the shooting incident to the public the afternoon of February 12.
Local authorities released a report on the shooting on February 16, 2006 and witness statements on February 22.
All of the witness statements conflict with the Sheriff 's reports over the time of the shooting.
More recently, Morris has emerged as a harsh critic of the Clintons and has written several books that criticize them, including ` Rewriting History', a rebuttal toSenator Hillary Clinton 's ` Living History.'.
Morris once joked he will leave the United States if Hillary Clinton were to be elected president in 2008.
He currently lives in Redding, Connecticut.Morris attended Stuyvesant High School in New York City, where he was active on the debate team.
He managed Jerrold Nadler 's campaign for class president ; Nadler has since gone on to represent New York in the House of Representatives.
Morris was also involved in the first campaign of Richard Gottfried for New York State Assembly in 1970.
Morris graduated from Stuyvesant in 1964, then attended Columbia where he earned a Bachelor of Arts academic degree, graduating a year early, in 1967. Morris first worked with Bill and Hillary Clinton during Bill Clinton 's successful 1978 bid for Governor of Arkansas.
From the early months of 1995 until August of 1996, Morris was a principal architect of the Clinton-Gore re-election strategy.
Morris did not have a role in Clinton 's successful 1992 Presidential campaign, which instead was headed by David Wilhelm, James Carville, George Stephanopoulos, and Paul Begala.
After the 1994 mid-term election where Republicans took control of both houses of the United States Congress and gained considerable power in the states, Clinton once again sought Morris' help to prepare for the U.S. presidential election, 1996 Presidential election.
The Great Smoky Mountains Railroad was also used in the filming of 1996 comedy ` My Fellow Americans' starring Jack Lemmon and James Garner when they stumble on to a charter train full of UNC-Chapel Hill fans headed for the NCAA Final Four.
Pelagianism was repudiated by the Council of Carthage in 417, largely at Augustine 's insistence.
Shi`a Islam is the second largest denomination of Islam.
Shi`a Muslims believe that similar to the appointment of prophets, Imams after Muhammad are also chosen by God.
According to Shi`as, Ali was chosen by Allah and thus appointed by Muhammad to be the direct successor and leader of the Muslim community.
They regard him as the first Shi'a Imam, which continued as a hereditary position through Fatima and Ali 's descendants.
The largest group of Shi`a Muslims believe in a total of twelve Imams.
The twelfth Imam is believed to be in occultation, and will appear again just before the end times.
The Shi`a Hadiths include the sayings of the Imams.
Vertigo is a specific medical term used to describe the sensation of spinning or having the room spin about you.
The village scenes of Puddleby-on-the-Marsh were filmed in the village of Castle Combe in Wiltshire.
In Spring 2007, DaimlerChrysler reached an agreement with Cerberus Capital Management to sell off its Chrysler Group subsidiary, of which the Dodge division was a part.
On June 10, 2009 Italian auto maker Fiat formed a partnership with Chrysler in which a `` New Chrysler '' was formed and was given the name Chrysler Group LLC in which Dodge remains a part of.
An additional level of complexity emerges when resolvers violate the rules of the DNS protocol.
Violence against men is the term known for violence that is committed against men by the man 's intimate partner.
Battered men have been mocked and condemned for centuries for being victims of spousal abuse.
After the Renaissance era in Europe, battered men were punished and deemed failures in society.
In England for example, men would be strapped to carts and driven around town, while people sat and ridiculed them.
Much like our society today, the topic of abused men is taken as a joke instead of a serious issue.
Some of the reasons why the issue has not been taken seriously is because the ratio of male versus female victims, the methods used to determine whether or not male victimization has occurred, and the nature of female violence.
The means used to measure domestic violence strongly influence the results found.
For example, studies of reported domestic violence and extrapolations of those studies show women preponderantly as victims and men to be more violent, whereas the statistical survey based Conflict Tactics Scale, tends to show men and women equally violent. ` i.e.'.
This stereotype has been embedded in social standards for decades that it is unimaginable that it would ever occur the other way around.
It is women that tend to be the first to reach for something that can cause serious fatalities to their partner.
Another reason why the issue has not been taken seriously is the belief that the study of battered women will help provide information on battered men.
Many other reasons why domestic violence has gone unrecognized for years is because of several other reasons, such as : violence against men is so low that it is hard to get a correct estimate as to how many men are actually abused.
It has taken women several years to encourage each other to report domestic violence.
While no action has been taken by men to report spousal abuse.
The idea of men being abused is so absurd to people that men feel ashamed to report any domestic violence.
Though the scars sustained during these mishaps, rather than crippling, tend to be either character building or serve to make the character look cooler.
While meditating with Splinter, Donatello receives a vision of the future were he is in the village of Chihaya in Japan.
When Donatello asks why he would be doing there his master simply replies `` To bury me ''.
Arriva, the city bus company of Dordrecht, also serving Werkendam, and also operating the Kop van' t Land ferry on the way.
Doug has also featured on four Little Axe for Skip McDonald albums with Alan Glen on Harmonica.
A 2002 literature review of elective abortion rates found that 91 -- 93 % of pregnancies with a diagnosis of Down syndrome were terminated.
This is similar to 90 % results found by Physicians and ethicists are concerned about the ethical ramifications.
Conservative commentator George Will has calling it `` eugenics by abortion in the abortion ''.
Lord Brian Rix has stated that `` alas, the birth of a child with Down 's syndrome is still considered by many to be an utter tragedy '' and the `` ghost of the biologist Sir Francis Galton, who founded the eugenics movement in 1885, still stalks the corridors of many a teaching hospital ''. David Mortimer has argued in ` Ethics & Medicine' that `` Down 's syndrome infants have long been disparaged by some doctors and government bean counters. ''.
Nike SB created a shoe based on the album cover.
The Manchester band Happy Mondays recorded their second album ` Bummed' at The Slaughterhouse, a studio that has since burnt down, in Driffield in 1988.
` Dual consciousness' is a concept developed by Frantz Fanon in his book ` Black Skins, White Masks'.
It deals with the nature of the colonized subject, and the way in which they must simultaneously embrace two different cultural identities.
The Heir Apparent is the present holder 's son Walter John Francis Scott, Earl of Dalkeith -LRB- b. 1984 -RRB-.
The county was formed in 1750 from New Hanover County.
It was named for Thomas Hay, Viscount Dupplin, later 9th Earl of Kinnoull.
Although the Dvorak layout is the only other keyboard layout registered with ANSI and is provided with all major operating systems, attempts to convert universally to the Dvorak layout have not succeeded.
The failure of the Dvorak layout to displace the QWERTY layout has been the subject of some studies and of considerable debate. and. a pro-Dvorak rebuttal of Liebowitz & Margolis However, in considering resistance to the adoption of the Dvorak layout, different segments of the market -LRB- non-typists, typists, corporations and manufacturers -RRB- differ in the extent, nature, and motivation of their resistance.
Furthermore, the influence of these factors on the different segments of the market has changed over time, following changes in technology and awareness of Dvorak as an alternative keyboard layout.
Factors against adoption of the Dvorak layout have included the following :.
Failure to demonstrate superiority in speed, economy of effort, and accuracy -- noting that the significant issue here is the demonstrability.
Few studies have been done on the relative efficiency of the two keyboard layouts, and those studies have been criticised for failing to adhere to rigorous academic standards.
Failure to achieve the general population 's awareness that the Dvorak layout existed.
This improved somewhat following the ` Guinness Book of Records' 1985 publication of Barbara Blackburn 's achievement of 212 wpm using a Dvorak keyboard, and again in the mid-1990s when computer operating systems began to incorporate the Dvorak layout as an option.
Failure to overcome an investment in competence in the QWERTY layout made by a large number of typists and typist trainers prior to the general availability of the Dvorak layout.
This investment has proved the most powerful influence up until the 1990s.
Typing training in schools and secretarial colleges is almost always done on the QWERTY layout both because it conforms with the expectation of industry and because it is the layout with which most teachers or trainers are already familiar.
Many QWERTY typists have retrained themselves to use the Dvorak layout because the emphasis in touch typing is traditionally on speed and accuracy, and because Dvorak users commonly report a reduction in typing-related injuries such as carpal-tunnel syndrome.
Failure to persuade large typewriter manufacturers to produce significant volumes of typewriters equipped with Dvorak layouts.
It would be sufficient to argue that the manufacturers were responding to the large QWERTY user base, rather than considering the plausible but unproven assertion that manufacturers had a vested interest in ensuring that typists could not type faster than the machines could respond mechanically.
Converting standard mechanical typewriters to Dvorak -LRB- or any alternative, e.g. international, layout -RRB- was often impractical, and at best expensive, so switching to Dvorak usually required a new, dedicated machine.
A notable exception was the popular IBM Selectric typewriter, which used a single spherical typing element rather than individual character hammers ; it could easily be converted by replacing the QWERTY typing element with an available Dvorak equivalent.
On Easter Monday, 1916, an insurrection staged in Ireland took place with the aims of overthrowing British rule and creating an Irish Republic.
Echo Park' is a district of Los Angeles northwest of downtown.
It is east and southeast of Silver Lake, south of the Elysian Valley, north of Westlake/Mac Arthur Park, and southwest of Elysian Park.
The final results amongst these supply and demand interactions is a gradation of different wages representing income inequality within society.
In August, 2000, the firm was acquired by AppNet to achieve scale through a broader set of consulting services, and very shortly thereafter, AppNet was acquired by Commerce One.
The firm acquired Co-Brand Dynamics, now PaymentDynamics, in the Fall of 2003.
As computers steadily ramp up the number of polygons per object created, the evidence of edge loops declines.
The ` Edgewood Arsenal experiments' -LRB- also known as ` Project 112' -RRB- are said to be related to or part of CIA mind control programs after World War II, like MKULTRA.
The experiments were performed at the Edgewood Arsenal, northeast of Baltimore, Maryland, and involved the use of hallucinogens such LSD, THC, and BZ, in addition to biological and chemical agents.
Experiments on human subjects utilizing such agents goes back to at least World War I..
In the mid-1970s, in the wake of many health claims made from exposure to such agents, including psychotropic and hallucinogenic drugs administered in later experiments, Congress began investigations of misuse of such experiments, and inadequate informed consent given by the soldiers and civilians involved.
Edmund de Waal was born in Nottingham, England in 1964.
He has worked as a curator, a professor, a linguist and a lecturer.
His studies and writings have made him an art critic and an art historian.
Openings and spaces are continually studied and reinterpreted in his work.
Edmund was raised in a clerical family, who attended church regularly.
They lived near a few gothic cathedrals, and visited them and this is where Edmund was originally attracted to small spaces within larger architecture.
When he was five, he asked for his father to take him to an evening class to learn how to make pots, and to throw.
A small white pot, which he made, was the first pot he remembers liking.
From this age Edmund was already more attracted to minimalist work, than he was to busy, highly decorated objects.Edmund then went to secondary school at the King 's School in Canterbury.
There Geoffrey Whiting, who was one of the disciples of Bernard Leach, taught him pottery.
Whiting worked and taught very much in the Leach tradition, which brought together the East and the West by combining techniques and philosophies from Japan/China, and mediaeval English ceramics.
Geoffrey Whiting believed very much in functional ceramics, and he taught Edmund in class and as his apprentice.
By repetitively making pots, as a functional potter would, Edmund became more attuned to the slight differences in form.
Edmund stated in an interview on BBC radio `` ... it 's a bit like doing scales as well -- you 'd never be surprised by a musician spending five years doing arpeggios, and there is a sense in a ceramic apprenticeship that that 's really what you 're doing. '' After Edmund graduated from secondary school he was sure that he wanted to become a potter.
He continued as an apprentice for a couple years, and he undertook postgraduate studies in Japanese at Sheffield University.
He was awarded a Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Scholarship and worked at the Mejiro Ceramics Studio in Tokyo.
He was brought up in a family of readers and writers, and though Edmund was immersed in ceramics he never stopped reading and writing.
He then decided to attend Cambridge University, where he would study English.
Edmund is well known for his work with clay, but he is as well known for his writings.
He married in 1883 the daughter of the Rev. J. Chalmers Blake, and left a family of two sons and three daughters.
One crucial advantage over less expensive robotic vacuums such as the early-generation Roomba models is the Trilobite 's removable roller brush and replaceable air filters.
However, the later-generation Roomba also contains removable brushes, and a replaceable dust pan air filter.
The Trilobite, however, also contains a removable air filter for the motor.
This has the benefit of both minimizing odor and reducing long-term dust buildup in any internal machinery.
Like the later-generation Roomba, the Trilobite 's removable roller brush can be cleaned of any hair or particle buildup, which prevents the possibility of snaring the roller and burning out the motor.
The later generation Roomba also has a second bristle-brush that can be time-consuming to clean.
The Trilobite 's agitator brush is composed of an aluminum cylinder, with six silicone-rubber blade inserts ; though the Roomba can actually clean some low-profile carpeted surfaces to slightly better standard.
The Partnership for Safe Driving is among those concerned that ESC is just the latest example of a long and ultimately unsuccessful campaign, in the U.S. and abroad, to make cars that are capable of compensating for dangerous driving behaviorThe Partnership believes that if no corresponding effort is made to deter speeding, aggressive, distracted and drowsy driving, this technology will not live up to its promise and may, in fact, encourage even more dangerous driving behavior.
Also, a flashing light on the dash -LRB- in most ESC-equipped cars -RRB- tells drivers when the ESC system is active, warning them to slow down when their vehicle is skidding.
The series has received lots of praise within the anime world between its story and technical excellence in production quality, animation and color.
Criticism has been leveled at both the Japanese and English dub for having sub-par voice acting in the first three episodes.
Another criticism is that the series ends abruptly with some loose ends to the story that could leave viewers unsatisfied.
She returned to London for the fourth season at Covent Garden in 1875.
After the season, she performed at the Norwich festival, where she sang Mendelssohn 's Hymn of Praise and Julius Benedict 's St. Cecilia.
Sometime during the process, Grand Empress Dowager Feng apparently became apprehensive of his abilities and therefore had him detained and considered deposing him in favor of his brother Tuoba Xi, but after her attendants persuaded her otherwise, she did not carry out such actions.
While Grand Empress Dowager Feng never formally returned imperial powers to him, by about 483 he appeared to be fairly in control of the government, although Grand Empress Dowager Feng continued to retain substantial powers.
Indeed, it was by her order that that year, after Emperor Xiaowen 's concubine Consort Lin bore his oldest son, Tuoba Xun, that Consort Lin was forced to commit suicide pursuant to Northern Wei customs.
She raised Tuoba Xun herself.
In 485, after Emperor Xiaowen created his younger brothers princes, Grand Empress Dowager Feng established an imperial school for these princes.
In 486, perhaps as both a sign of Sinicization and demonstration of Emperor Xiaowen 's authority, he began to assume traditional Chinese imperial clothing, including a robe with dragon patterns and a tassled hat.
As Emperor Xiaowen was raised by Grand Empress Dowager Feng, he also became very close to the family of her brother Feng Xi.
For some time, he took two of his daughters as concubines, but one of them soon died of illness, and the other, Consort Feng Run, also suffered a major illness and was sent back to her father house, where she became a Buddhist nun.
Prior to the enactment of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1868, the Supreme Court generally held that the substantive protections of the Bill of Rights did not apply to state governments.
Subsequently, under the Incorporation doctrine the Bill of Rights have been broadly applied to limit state and local government as well.
For example, in the ` Board of Education of Kiryas Joel Village School District v. Grumet' -LRB- 1994 -RRB-, the majority of the court joined Justice David Souter 's opinion, which stated that `` government should not prefer one religion to another, or religion to irreligion. ''.
However, this is a controversial and evolving area of jurisprudence.
Though she reprised her roles in ` Anything Goes' and ` Call Me Madam', film executives would not select her for ` Annie Get Your Gun' or ` Gypsy'.
Nonetheless, Stanley Kramer decided to cast her as the battle-axe Mrs. Marcus, mother-in-law of Milton Berle, in the madcap ` It 's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World'.
` Ethics of file sharing' is a subfield of ethics specifically relating to the ethical implications of file sharing over computer networks and the Internet.
It is a testament to the word usage of Sabino Arana that the three words of the title are neologisms he created himself.
The tape was wound in an endless loop, in much the same manner as 8-track tapes.
Data and programs were stored sequentially on the tape so that data requests had to scan through the tape until the desired data/application was located before being read.
As inefficient as this seems, the method was significantly better than manually rewinding the OEM cassette tape, and less expensive than a floppy drive.
First year undergraduates are housed on-site in the College 's Turl St. site, and there is dedicated Graduate accommodation for the college on Iffley Road.
Child sexual abuse occurs frequently in Western society.
Prevalence figures range between 10 % to 62 % for females and 16 % for males.
Child sexual abuse has a difficult burden of proof in criminal courts.
The frequency of false allegations was found to be six percent by emergency room staff.
In a 1989 Everson and Boat study, among pre-school children, the rate was found to be between 1.7 to 2.7 percent.
Among adolescents, the rate was found to be between 8 to 12 percent.
The overall average rate was found to be 5 to 8 percent.
Higher rates of false allegations are found in custody disputes.
Children appear to rarely make up false allegations of their own accord.
The denial of offenses is strong among men that commit sexual offenses.
Many continue to deny their offenses even after conviction.
Adults that were abused as children may be reluctant to disclose their abuse if they are attached to their offender.
Including, `` It 's a shame cancer did n't kill Brent, '', `` F -- that cancer victim, '', `` Why could n't that mother f -- er die '' and `` Cancer kills a lot of people, why not him ?, '' - Downe mentioned how the band had n't played in a while and was rusty.
Coupled with technical difficulties and citing a lack of practice -LRB- Downe had the band re-start the song ` House of Pain' due to a bad guitar intro. -RRB- - Steven Adler, former drummer of Guns N' Roses, tried to sit in with the band for one last song, but was denied.
The band was past their time limit and the technical crew starting removing Faster Pussycat 's equipment.
After only 5 songs they had to end their set.
The drummer broke into the beginning of ` Bathroom Wall,' Taime cut him off, stating he 's done and yelled `` Thanks Rocklahoma, you 're f -- ing awesome. ''.
Versions from FileMaker Pro 5.5 onwards also have an ODBC interface.
A layout artist working on a key-frame of animation for ` He-Man and the Masters of the Universe'.
This was a typical working desk for animators, layout artists, and background designers at Filmation in 1983.
The animated adaptations of the Archie Comics characters were also noteworthy for the pop music produced for it, particularly the song, `` Sugar, Sugar '', which was a # 1 hit single.
A few weeks later, the First again appeared to Andrew as Jonathan, instructing him to use a gun to kill the potential slayers but subsequently became angry with Andrew and Buffy 's friends when Andrew wore a wire so they could record the First Evil.
Continuing to monger fear among the Potential Slayers, the First Evil appeared to Chloe, taunting her to commit suicide before appearing to Buffy and the potentials as Chloe, making them feel partly responsible for Chloe 's death.
The exact nature of the Flower Wars is not well determined but a number of different interpretations of the concept exist.
This view is based on a number of quotes from early chroniclers and also from the letters of Cortés.
This is an example of a hydrodynamic bearing which does not use a secondary bearing for start/stop.
In this application, a large part of the bearing wear occurs during startup and shutdown, though in engine use, substantial wear is also caused by hard combustion contaminants that bridge the oil film.
President George W. Bush and First Lady Laura Bush approach Chinese President Hu Jintao and his wife in Beijing during an official state visit.
The Bush presidency has also been marked by diplomatic tensions with the People 's Republic of China and North Korea, the latter of which admitted in 2003 to having been in the process of building nuclear weapons and threatened to use them if provoked by the U.S..
The administration is concerned that Iran may also be developing nuclear weapons, although Iran has denied such accusations and maintains that it is pursuing peaceful use of nuclear energy.
Bush made his first visit to Europe in June 2001, having never traveled there prior to winning the presidency.
The U.S. Embassy suspended operations in Bissau on June 14, 1998, in the midst of violent conflict between forces loyal to then-President Vieira and the military-led junta.
Prior to and following the Embassy closure, the United States and Guinea-Bissau have enjoyed excellent bilateral relations.
Russia has an embassy in Kampala and Uganda has an embassy in Moscow.
Forest Park is located along the western edge of the City of St. Louis, though it is located nearly in the center of the entire metropolitan area.
It is bordered by Skinker Boulevard and Washington University in St. Louis to the west, I-64 / US-40 and Oakland Avenue to the south, Kingshighway Boulevard and Barnes-Jewish Hospital and the Washington University Medical Center to the east, and Lindell Boulevard to the north.
Green Sand2.
Resin Coated Sand3.
Molasses 4.
Cold Box Sand5.
Hot Box Sand6.
CO2 SandSand in terms of foundry is meant for the sand ` prepared' for making the moulds or cores.
Dunnery moved to the Los Angeles following the breakup of It Bites and released his first solo album, ` Welcome To The Wild Country' in 1991.
` One Night In Sauchiehall Street', a live set, followed in 1995 with Dunnery 's third studio album ` Tall Blonde Helicopter' following later in the year, during which time he had relocated to New York City.
Primarily an acoustic album, Dunnery abandoned the predominantly pop-oriented sound of his previous album in favour of an eclectic mixture of soft ballads and acoustic rockers.
At New York, on 3 September 1779, he quarreled with Clinton, and resigned his position as adjutant general.
Nelson, p. 67 He served with the Volunteers of Ireland, during the raid on Staten Island, by Lord Stirling on 15 January 1780. Nelson, p. 69.
In 1890, Younghusband transferred to the Indian Political Service.
He served as a political officer on secondment from the British Army.
Then a Major, He served as British commissioner to Tibet from 1902-1904.
In 1903-1904, under orders from the Viceroy of India, Lord Curzon, he, jointly with John Claude White, the Political Officer for Sikkim, led a military mission to Tibet as a result of disputes over the Sikkim-Tibet border ; the mission controversially became a ` de facto' invasion and British forces occupied Lhasa.
The British force was supported by King Ugyen Wangchuck of Bhutan, who was knighted in return for his services.
Frederick M. Smith became the first president of the church to submit notice of resignation.
However, he never ceased to be president of the church on account of the fact that the General Conference who he submitted his resignation to, rejected it -LRB- see page 227 of The Church Through the Years, Vol. II, by Richard P. Howard, Herald Publishing House, Independence, MO., 1993 -RRB-.
The process of free trade, especially in post industrial economies, effectively eliminates the existence of unequal resource distribution.
Japan imports much of its food source, and in return exports mainly the produce of its extensive and high-tech workforce.
Continuing the example, Japan would not likely be able to sustain the population it does today without one of three possibilities : an unbelievable increase in technology to allow for better use of land resources, international trade, or seizing arable land from another state.
Trade also allows for better quality produce and competitiveness between nations, effectively raising the living standards of those nations.
Finally, increased trade leads to increased bilateral communication between nations and as such, wars not focused on resources or land already cured by trade, including ideological arguments become less evident.
It can be sung as a simple melody or as a round with up to four parts.
From 1972 to 2003 they reportedly completed over 1,500 missions, with only 5 shots being fired.
In March 2006, in the same competition, GSG 9 defended its championship.
`` Team GSG-9, the Federal Border Police of Germany, swept the competition and won all seven events. ''.
` Gardner, Massachusetts' is a city in Worcester County, Massachusetts, United States.
The population was 20,770 as of the 2000 census.
Gardner is home to Dunn State Park, Gardner Heritage State Park, Lake Wampanoag Wildlife Sanctuary, and Mount Wachusett Community College.
Rebuffat also was second unit director on the Walt Disney mountain film ` Third Man on the Mountain'.
In 1926 George Eastman was approached by Lord Riddell, the Chairman of Royal Free Hospital, to fund a dental clinic in London.
He agreed to give # 800,000 which was matched by # 80,000 each from Lord Riddell and Sir Albert Levy, the Royal Free 's honorary treasurer.
George Harvey Strait', -LRB- born May 18, 1952 -RRB-, is an American country music singer.
The native Texan is known for his honky tonk country western sound.
He is well known for his unique style of western swing music, barroom ballads, honky-tonk style, and fresh yet traditional country western music.
Ghulam Azam in meting with Lt.General Tikka Khan and Nurul Amin to form Peace Committe -LRB- Razakar Party -RRB-.
In addition, he made a guest appearance on the L.A. Guns album ` Shrinking Violet', which he also produced.
Clarke also produced The Bronx 's self-titled album released in 2003 and Girlsplayboys debut album ` From Ritual to Romance' in 2006.
His first lessons were given him by a Florentine of English descent, Ignatius Hugford, and then under Anton Domenico Gabbiani.
He was in Rome from 1750-1753, where he became acquainted with Sir William Chambers, the architect, and Joseph Wilton, the sculptor, whom he accompanied to England in August 1755.
Glycogenolysis transpires in the muscle and liver tissue, where glycogen is stored, as a hormonal response to epinephrine -LRB- e.g., adrenergic stimulation -RRB- and/or glucagon, a pancreatic peptide triggered by low blood glucose concentrations produced in the Alpha cells of the Islets of Langerhans.
The cover of Time Magazine for September 20, 2004, shows two hands pulling open a hole in the American flag for the cover story.
However, special attetention is clearly due to ` My Hariest Adventure' and ` Say Cheese and Die'.
As always, the episodes, well, leave the viewer with goosebumps.
When one begings to watch ` Goosebumps' and is not scared by it -LRB- this usually takes years -RRB- one is able to appreciate it on a much deeper level.
For example, if one pays close attention to ` Say Cheese and Die', one notices R. L. Stine 's usage of humor, most notably in the `` Umm, tasty '' joke.
Instances like these take ` Goosebumps' to a level that most viewers never come to appreciate.
The depth of ` Goosebumps' extends even beyond the subtle jokes, though.
The memorable antagonist of ` Say Cheese and Die', `` Spidey '' can be seen as a symbol of perverted, creepy men everywhere.
The family car, for instance, can be seen as a symbol of decadence and excess.
It is no conincidence, therefore, that the camera -LRB- no doubt a symbol bad luck and misfortune -RRB- should wind up with the very family who posseses such a car.
In a truly post-victorian style, Stine develops and contrasts the luxury and wealth of the protagonist with the degredation of the antagonist.
This same contrast is found in ` The Haunted Mask' between Carley Beth and her family and the jaded shop keeper who supplies her the mask.
Just as in ` Say Cheese and Die', the protagonist steals something -LRB- in this case the mask itself -RRB- from the antagonist.
Further establishing his role as the antagonist is Stine 's careful development of his greed and personal dissatifaction.
In the same way that Spidey brought about his own ruin because of his greedy attempt to see the future, the old shop keeper brings about his own ruin as a result of his greed to be physically attractive.
Ironically, the protagonist of the story, Carley Beth, also expresses personal dissatisfaction when she thinks she is so cowardly that she should buy the mask to make up for her cowardice.
The prosecution used Coutts' behaviour -LRB- hiding the body -RRB- in the weeks after the death to strengthen the case that Coutts had the intent to commit murder.
The prosecution case was that Coutts, who visited the stored body on a number of occasions, showed necrophiliac tendencies.
When interviewed informally by police investigating Ms. Longhurst 's disappearance, Coutts also repeatedly lied to police about his movements, before going on holiday with his partner, who was expecting twins.
` Gravity Kills' was an American industrial rock band from Jefferson City, Missouri.
This was the first earthquake to have a certified seismic intensity over 7 on the Japan Meteorological Agency 's ` shindo' intensity scale.
Indianapolis International Airport is located 55 miles from Greensburg, and Cincinnati Northern Kentucky International Airport is located 70 miles away.
The concept of gremlins as responsible for sabotaging aircraft was popularized during World War II among airmen of Britain 's Royal Air Force, in particular the men of the high altitude Photographic Reconnaissance Units -LRB- PRU -RRB- of RAF Benson, RAF Wick and RAF St Eval.
The story attempted to explain the accidents which often occurred during their flights.
In reality, the gremlins were a form of `` buck passing '' or deflecting blame.
The names Fulton Gearloose and Clinton Coot were first used in this story but it was not revealed that they were the fathers of Gyro Gearloose and Grandma Duck.
She has a warrant for her arrest in New Jersey after fleeing the United States with her children following a messy divorce and custody battle that resulted in her Afghan American ex-husband being awarded custody.
In 1873, while still director of Freiberg Mining Academy, Zeuner also took on the post of director at the Royal Saxon Polytechnicum in Dresden -LRB- now Technische Universität Dresden -RRB-.
Zeuner 's efforts there led to the introduction of the humanities ; the extension of the range of subjects taught resulted in the polytechnic 's rise to a full-scale polytechnic university in 1890.
During the invasion of Puerto Rico, Henry led a `` Provisional Division '' from the city of Ponce to Arecibo, Puerto Rico to rendezvous with General Theodore Schwan, who was arriving from the city of Mayagüez.
The tropical rain impeded his trek and before he reached Mayagüez, the conflict was over.
From 2001 to 2003 the bridge was closed for repair and renovations, and was reopened sporting a new white colour, and a resupported structure containing as many of the old components of the bridge as possible.
The repair work was carried out by Harland and Wolff, makers of the RMS ` Titanic'.
2009-08-24T14 :01:11 Z.
The ` Harbin Y-12' is a high wing twin-engine turboprop utility aircraft built by Harbin Aircraft Manufacturing Corporation -LRB- HAMC -RRB-.
Methadone does not cause a strong euphoria in the user but reduces or eliminates cravings and the symptoms of opioid withdrawal.
Therefore, harm reductionists maintain, methadone should be made widely available to people, temporarily or permanently, to promote the transition to a fulfilling and healthy lifestyle.
This could potentially help them look after themselves, their families, and re-enter the work force or pursue further education.
These are the building blocks for regaining dignity and self esteem and are imperative for those who want to become contributing members of society.
Harm reduction is a flexible philosophy that stresses understanding of the needs of the drug user, and responding to these needs in a way as flexible and realistic as the local laws allow, working at the pace - and to achieve the goals - that the person wants.
However, for those drug users who want to change their life, substitute medication should be complemented by psychological and practical support, enabling the person to reach their stated goals.
In the UK prescribing methadone is seen as a way of reducing drug related-crime - the provision of substitute medication removes the need to buy drugs through the underground street market.
On November 25 1987, Washington died of a heart attack in his office at City Hall.
The school is located in Harrow on the Hill in the London Borough of Harrow.
It was founded in 1572 under a Royal Charter granted by Elizabeth I of England.
This charter was granted to John Lyon for the provision of education to local boys.
Lyon was particularly insistent about keeping Harrow single-sex.
It is one of the original nine English public schools as defined by the Public Schools Act 1868.
Ann Wilson, lead singer of Heart, recorded a cover version of the song `` War of Man '' for her 2007 solo release ` Hope & Glory' with Alison Krauss.
The Red Top entered service in 1964, arming the English Electric Lightning and de Havilland Sea Vixen.
It remained in limited service until the final retirement of the Lightning in 1988.
Recent plans included the modernization of Standard class frigates with new electronics and radar systems, the modernization of Glaukos and Poseidon class submarines with new sonars, electronics and air-independent propulsion engines -LRB- programs Neptune 1/2 -RRB-, while on January 2009 the order of six -LRB- 4 +2 -RRB- FREMM multipurpose frigates was announced by the Hellenic Navy.
Henry 's motto was ` Coeur Loyal' -LRB- true heart -RRB- and he had this embroidered on his clothes in the form of a heart symbol and with the word `` loyal ''.
His emblem was the Tudor rose and the Beaufort portcullis.
The first violin competition named after Wieniawski took place in Warsaw in 1935, and the International Henryk Wieniawski Violin Competition has been held every five years since 1952.
The German term ` Herrenhaus' is equivalent to the English ` House of Lords' and describes roughly similar institutions as the English House of Lords in German-speaking countries.
Additionally, he never played on a championship NFL team.
` Hieronymus Bosch', -LRB- Latinised ` Jheronimus Bosch' ; real name ` Jeroen van Aken' -RRB- -LRB- c. 1450 - August 9, 1516 -RRB- was an Early Netherlandish painter of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries.
Many of his works depict sin and human moral failings.
Bosch used images of demons, half-human animals and machines to evoke fear and confusion to portray the evil of man.
The works contain complex, highly original, imaginative, and dense use of symbolic figures and iconography, some of which was obscure even in his own time.
Limiting intake of dietary fat to 30 -- 35 % of total calories.
Niacin.
Wearing of the hijab was enforced by the Taliban regime, and is enforced in the Islamic Republic of Iran.
The Prosecutor-General, Abolfazl Musavi-Tabrizi has been quoted as saying : `` Any one who rejects the principle of hijab in Iran is an apostate and the punishment for an apostate under Islamic law is death ''.
The Taliban 's Islamic Emirate required women to cover not only their head but their face as well, because `` the face of a woman is a source of corruption '' for men not related to them.
Later alternative artists like A Tribe Called Quest, Mos Def, and The Roots, also achieved some mainstream success, though the influence of jazz had grown less pronounced -LRB- with some exceptions, such as Guru 's ` Jazzmatazz' project -RRB-.
With the outbreak of war in September 1939, 1st and 2nd Battalions of the Hertfordshire Regiment were mobilised.
Together with the 6th Battalion of the Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire Regiment, they made up 162nd Infantry Brigade of the East Anglian Division.
2nd Battalion would later be at Ver-sur-Mer in Normandy in support of the D-Day landings.
Strophion worn under the bust.
This belief is based on wall paintings in Crete, the centre of the Minoan civilisation, which show what has been described as a ` bikini'.
These appear to be women performing in athletics.
Similar depictions are seen in Sicily -LRB- Villa Romana del Casale, 4th Century -RRB-.
However Minoan women on the island of Crete 3,000 years ago wore garments that partially supported yet revealed their bare breasts.
The best known example of this being the Snake Goddess.
They used corsets that were fitted and laced or a smaller corselette that left the breasts exposed, or even forced them upwards to make them more visible.
However this ` corset' was outerwear, not underwear.
The succeeding Mycenaean civilisation also emphasised the breast which had a special cultural and religious significance.
Women in Classical Greece are often depicted loosely draped in diaphanous garments, or with one breast exposed.
A band of cloth known as an ` apodesmos', or ` mastodeton' was worn by Greek women to bind down the breasts for exercise in those city-states that supported women 's sports, such as Sparta.
A belt could also be fastened over a simple tunic-like garment or undergarment, just below the breasts or over the breasts.
When the apodesmos was worn under the breasts, it accentuated them.
Another word for a breast-band or belt was ` strophion'.
However the most famous depiction of women exercising in Sparta, by Degas shows the women wearing only a loincloth.
The basic item of classical Greek costume was the ` peplos', later the ` chiton' -LRB- two rectangular pieces of cloth partially sewn together on both sides, with a 12 '' to 15 '' overfold or ` apotygma' -RRB-, which evolved into the chemise, the commonest item of under clothing worn by men and women for hundreds of years, also variously known as a smock or shift.
In Sparta women usually wore the chiton completely open on the left side.
After falling almost entirely under Ottoman rule in the end of the 14th century, the Bulgarian state ceased to exist as an independent entity and remained part of the Ottoman Empire for nearly five centuries until 1878.
The bowler does not get credit for the wicket.

The Boundaries of Hollywood, as established by the California Legislature -LRB- AB 588 -RRB-.
In addition, at least one million people from the Ukraine were sent to the Gulag or forcefully relocated to unpopulated areas during this time.
Life expectancy at birth fell to a level as low as 10 years for females and 7 for males at the Ukraine in 1933.
The resultant holograms have a maximum resolution of 10 micrometres per optical element.
To design optical elements, several algorithms are used to shape scattered radiation patterns.
Since present-day Zoroastrianism does not traditionally accept converts, some followers of the religion see reproduction as essential to maintain the the community.
A homosexual couple can not reproduce sexually, whereas a heterosexual couple can.
However, few Zoroastrian communities exclude members on the grounds that they may be, or are, homosexual.
Upon his death, Freddie Mercury, a homosexual Parsi, was given a traditional Zoroastrian funeral service.
The restaurant hires only women as servers, and refers to them as `` Hooters Girls ''.
Several discrimination lawsuits brought against the chain have been settled out of court or dropped by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission -LRB- EEOC -RRB-, some after an advertising campaign featuring St. Petersburg, Florida Hooters' kitchen manager Vince Gigliotti dressed in a Hooters Girl uniform.
Men do find employment at Hooters as cooks, dishwashers, and managers where most wear Bermuda shorts, Hawaiian shirts, and similar garb.
Hoover provides traffic, severe weather, disaster information, and details on special events on low-power AM radio -LRB- 1610 kHz -RRB-.
Critical results were either raves or pans.
Artforum magazine in America called the film the smartest comment in cinema to date on American imperialism.
Hostel won the 2006 Empire Award for Best Horror Film.
In October 2007 H.M.V. stores' annual Horror poll ranked `` Hostel '' on their list of the 10 best horror films of all time.
It was the only modern horror film on the list, the most recent after it was made in 1988.
Bravo 's `` 100 Scariest Movie Moments : Even Scarier Movie Moments '' ranked `` Hostel '' as the # 1 scariest film of all time.
Dust mites consume minute particles of organic matter.
Dust mites have a rudimentary alimentary system -LRB- no stomach -RRB- and require most digestion to occur outside their body.
For this reason they secrete enzymes and deposit the fungus ` Aspergillus repens' on dust particles, to enable the fungus to pre-digest the organic matter with its enzymes.
Dust mites eat the same particle several times, only partially digesting it each time.
Between feedings dust mites leave particles to decompose further.
Ultimately a fully digested particle, which a dust mite will not eat, is deemed by scientists to constitute fecal matter.
Dust mites in bedding derive moisture from human breathing, perspiration, and saliva.
The House of Bernadotte reigned in both countries until the dissolution of the union between Norway and Sweden in 1905.
Prince Carl of Denmark, a grandson of King Charles XV, was then elected as Norway 's new king.
The term `` dignity '' is defined as `` the state of being worthy of honour or respect ''.
In other words, this respect is owed to every individual by the mere fact that he or she is a `` member of the human family ''.
This intrinsic worthiness is widely recognized by international law as the source of all human rights.
In this respect, both the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights -LRB- ICCPR -RRB- and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights -LRB- ICESCR -RRB- of 1966 affirm that human rights `` derive from the inherent dignity of the human person ''.
The fiduciary relationship arises from the governments ability to control people with the exercise of that power.
In effect, if a government has the power to abolish any rights, it is equally burdened with the fiduciary duty to protect such an interest because it would benefit from the exercise of its own discretion to extinguish rights which it alone had the power to dispose of.
The main UK show is hosted by Ant & Dec..
In the U.S., John Lehr presented the first series before it was picked up by NBC and presented by Myleene Klass and Damien Fahey ; the German hosts are Dirk Bach and Sonja Zietlow.
On the exterior, the sharp noses on the end of each trainset, known from high speed trains throughout Europe, represents a break with the current tradition of the IC3 train, where passengers are able walk between the trainsets.
In the interior, the train features natural materials in line with Scandinavian design tradition, an audio/video information system with seat reservation displays, and a lounge area.
The book was cited several times in the popular press, notably the British conservative newspaper ` The Times'.

Iceland is a welfare state and its population enjoys a wide range of benefits, for example old-age pensions and unemployment benefits.
This means that Iceland has very high taxation, like other Nordic countries.
The Ministry of Health runs the healthcare system.
The Ministry of Education, Science and Culture is responsible for the policies and methods that schools must use, and they issue the National Curriculum Guidelines.
However, the playschools and the primary and lower secondary schools are funded and administered by the municipalities.
Mary is also shown as being totally faithful towards Christ, especially during his Passion, when he was abandoned by His followers, even the apostles -LRB- apart from the young John -RRB-.
The Immaculate Conception also compares to the original righteousness of Adam and Eve.

In addition to the regular management programmes, the institute offers a unique course in Business Management for the armed forces officers, designed particularly for mid-level defence officers.
Prior to that, the relative ranking of castes differed from one place to another.
The castes did not constitute a rigid description of the occupation or the social status of a group.
Since the British society was divided by class, the British attempted to equate the Indian caste system to the class system.
They saw caste as an indicator of occupation, social standing, and intellectual ability.
During the initial days of British East India Company 's rules, caste privileges and customs were encouraged, but the British law courts disagreed with the discrimination against the lower castes.
However British policies of divide and rule as well as enumeration of the population into rigid categories during the 10 year census contributed towards the hardening of caste identities.
The Tietze extension theorem can be used to show that an interval is an injective cogenerator in a category of topological spaces subject to separation axioms.
The band 's influence is evidenced in the work of mainstream acts such as Refused, Frodus, The Murder City Devils, At the Drive-In, The Icarus Line, and Thursday.
The empirical evidence on this topic is quite clear -LRB- Kirschner et al. 2006 ; Mayer, 2004 -RRB-, for it suggests direct methods of instruction given novices.
Certainly once a learner has some foundation with the material, then one can expect them to practice what they have learned.

Inquisition -LRB- Inquisitorial system -RRB- is a common legal procedure where the tribunal is actively involved in determining the facts of the case.
Inquisition, or more correctly and formally' `` The Office of the Holy Inquistion ''' was also a department of the Roman Catholic Church charged with suppressing doctrinal heresy, using the Inquisitorial system described, and in all its forms, was behind a lot of witchcraft trials as well as forcible conversions or religious repression.
Persons tried by the inquisition were frequently burned if convicted, which by today 's standards would be an obvious conflict of interest-the inquisition could only seize the property of those charged if they were convicted on a capital charge ; and the secular authorities virtually always executed anyone they remanded over after the least of pro forma civil trials, and the penalty for witchcraft was nearly universally, burning at the stake-from strictures in the Bible.
One criticism is that the caucuses, especially the Democratic caucus, are a step backwards from the right to a secret ballot.
Democratic caucus participants -LRB- though ` not' Republicans, whose caucuses vote by secret ballot -RRB- must publicly state their opinion and vote, leading to natural problems such as peer pressure from fellow neighbors and embarrassment over who his/her real pick might be.
Another criticism involves the sheer amount of participants' time these events consume.
The Iowa caucus lasts two hours, preventing people who must work, who are sick, or must take care of their children from casting their vote.
Absentee voting is also barred, so soldiers who come from Iowa, but must serve in the military lose their vote.
The final criticism is the complexity of the rules in terms of how one 's vote counts, as it is not a simple popular vote.
Each precinct 's vote may be weighed differently due to its past voting record.
Ties can be solved by picking a name out of a hat or a simple coin toss, leading to anger over the true democratic nature of these caucuses.
The main street of Wickham is named after James.
Hannell St, runs from Wickham Station, to approximately, Elizabeth St, Tighe 's Hill.
James is the son of Geraldine Chaplin and Jean-Baptiste Thiérrée.
Her performance earned her a Golden Globe and an Academy award nomination.
Among her porn films, St. Claire is best known for her appearance in ` Gang Bang 2' -LRB- a 1996 sequel to ` World 's Biggest Gang Bang' with Annabel Chong -RRB-, in which she performed a record-breaking 300 sex acts with about 18 men.
She explained her controversial career move on the Howard Stern show by stating that she wanted to gain `` quick fame '' in the porn industry.
` Jay Faires' is currently President of Music and Publishing at Lionsgate Entertainment.
He was assigned this position in July 2005 after consulting for the company during the prior year.
` Jeannie Carson' -LRB- born ` Jean Schufflebottom' on May 23 1938 -RRB- is a British comedian and stage actor. born in Yorkshire, England.
Carson has a `` star '' on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Jim is in demand from coast to coast and internationally as a motivational speaker, spokesperson, marketing and sales strategist, and master storyteller.
He is president of Gold Medal Strategies, a Boston-area based promotions and marketing firm that also manages and represents Jim and his appearance business.
In 2005 Jam & Lewis open their brand new recording studios in Santa Monica California renaming it Flyte Tyme West.
In 2006, They won a Grammy for Yolanda Adams' song `` Be Blessed '' from her 2005 album `` Day By Day. ''.
Her first movie role was in the 1970 TV movie ` Menace on the Mountain', which was followed by several Disney productions.
Foster did not experience her breakout role until 1976, when she received moderate recognition but great acclaim for her role as an underage prostitute in ` Taxi Driver', receiving an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actress.
She won an Oscar for Best Actress in 1988 for playing a rape victim in ` The Accused'.
In 1991, she starred in ` The Silence of the Lambs' as Clarice Starling, a gifted FBI trainee, assisting in a hunt for a serial killer.
This performance received international acclaim and another Oscar for Best Actress.
Her films and roles have spanned a wide variety of genres, including thrillers, crime, romance, comedy, children 's movies, and science fiction.
DiMaggio also teamed up with Dr. Octopus in Amazing Spider-Man # 257 in tribute to the `` ol' Yankee Kazoo. ''.
Osteen married Victoria L. Iloff on 4 April, 1987.
They have two children, Jonathan and Alexandra.
Joel, son of John and Dodie Osteen, is one of six children.
His elder siblings, Paul, Lisa, Tamara and his younger sister April, are also involved in full-time ministry.
Joel 's half-brother, Justin, does missionary work out of New York, Mathieu is his father 's son from his first marriage which ended in a divorce.
Joel 's father, John Osteen, a former Southern Baptist pastor who became Charismatic in the late 1950s, founded Lakewood Church on Mother 's Day, 1959.
Osteen 's father developed Lakewood into a body of approximately 6,000 members with an active television ministry, crusades, conferences, missionary support and food distribution.
He died of a heart attack in 1999.
Joel attended Oral Roberts University in Oklahoma but dropped out.
Nonetheless, just recently in 2007, Mr. Osteen received an honorary doctorate degree, Ph.D. from a Board University of Alternative Medicines located in Boston Massachusetts.
After losing his coaching position, he was retained by RSL as the club 's technical director and director of soccer operations, where he remained until September 2007.
McEntire is a current member of Tortoise, The Sea and Cake, and The Red Krayola.
His drumming work as a sideman can be heard on recordings, such as ` Since' by Richard Buckner, ` Enantiodromia' and ` Life on the Fly', both by Azita, ` Near-Life Experience' by Come, ` Kernel' by Seam, and ` The Spectrum Between', by David Grubbs.
Swinney was previously a Member of Parliament -LRB- MP -RRB- for Tayside North in the British House of Commons, before taking the same seat in the 1999, 2003 and 2007 elections.
In 2007 he achieved the largest constituency vote for any candidate in Scotland.
The predictive failings of the Titor story have not stopped the story from continuing to be a topic of discussion in the paranormal community.
Bosch does the motion capturing and voice of Nero in ` Devil May Cry 4', making him the third actor involved with Power Rangers to have a role in the ` Devil May Cry' franchise, following stunt actor Reuben Langdon, who performed voice and motion capture for Dante in ` Devil May Cry 3' -LRB- and ` DMC4' -RRB-, and Daniel Southworth, who voiced and did motion capture for Vergil, also in ` DMC3', and for Credo, in ` DMC4'.
On June 29, 2006, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that they had the minimal protection of Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions.
Taché practised medicine in Rimouski, and, at the age of 27, he was unopposed for a seat in the Legislative Assembly.
His activity in politics led him into the newspaper business as a writer renowned for his caustic political wit.
He returned to public life in 1864 as a senior civil servant in Ottawa for 24 years where he produced a lasting legacy of achievements in literary, cultural, scientific and political areas.
Williams defended the comments as sarcastic and taken out of context.
In an article published in Time Magazine titled, `` What Bill O'Reilly Really Told Me '', Williams revealed Bill O'Reilly 's true intent to charge pop culture, rather than African American culture, for negatively affecting African American youth.
The country 's economy has depended heavily on imports and foreign aid before and after the collapse of the Communist trading bloc.
Leading Juche theorist Hwang Jang-yop has joined these criticisms since defecting to South Korea, although he maintains his belief in the Juche Idea as he understands it.
Political scientist Han S. Park in his book ` Juche : The Politics of Unconventional Wisdom' -LRB- 2002 -RRB- and theologian Thomas J. Belke in ` Juche : A Christian Study of North Korea 's State Religion' -LRB- 1999 -RRB- liken Juche to a religious movement.

After leaving office Futrell practiced law.
` KVMX' is a commercial broadcast radio station located in the Portland, Oregon area and broadcasts at 107.5 FM.
Crone believes that this is an exaggeration and that Mecca may only have been an outpost trading with nomads for leather, cloth, and camel butter.
Crone argues that if Mecca had been a well-known center of trade, it would have been mentioned by later authors such as Procopius, Nonnosus, and the Syrian church chroniclers writing in Syriac.
However, the town is absent from any geographies or histories written in the last three centuries before the rise of Islam.
Kang 's daughter, Kang Tongbi -LRB- 康 ? ? -RRB- was a student at Barnard College.
Following Hutchison 's election in 1993, Texas has had two sitting Republican U.S. senators.
Highway 224 forms Kellogg 's eastern boundary.
The North Skunk River runs southeasterly along the town 's southern edge.
The Electric Hellfire Club, an industrial metal band, originated in Kenosha in the early 1990s.
DNA evidence.
Kibbutzim founded in the 1920s tended to be larger than the kibbutzim like Degania which were founded prior to World War I. Degania had had twelve members at its founding.
Ein Harod, founded only a decade later, began with 215 members.
It was originally a boys-only school but now also admits girls in the sixth and seventh forms -LRB- Years 12 and 13 -RRB-.
The school has strong links to the Anglican church ; the Anglican Bishop of Auckland and the Dean of Auckland are permanent members of the school 's Board Of Governors.
The school caters for both boarding and day students.
In athletics, LaGrange College is a member of NCAA Division III with 15 athletic programs.
Later in the war, British General John Burgoyne 's decision to bypass the easy water route to the Hudson River that Lake George offered and, instead, attempt to reach the Hudson though the marshes and forests at the southern end of Lake Champlain, led to the British defeat at Saratoga.
In October 1984, inaugural ceremonies were held to celebrate the occasion of the transfer of the Provincial Capitol from Poblacion, Tubod to the Don Mariano Marcos Government Center -LRB- now Governor Arsenio A. Quibranza Provincial Government Center -RRB- at Pigcarangan, Tubod, Lanao del Norte.
As judge during the Anna Nicole Smith body custody hearing.
After the Harvard Corporation accepted Summers' resignation, hundreds of millions in pledged contributions were canceled by donors who were disappointed by the Harvard Corporation 's failure to stand up to the college faculty.
Harvard college alumni, as well as students and faculty at Harvard University 's professional schools -LRB- in particular Harvard Law School and Harvard Business School -RRB-, and other large donors generally supported Summers.
On May 10, 2007, Lee officially declared his intention to run for the Grand National Party as its presidential candidate.
On Monday, August 20, he defeated Park Geun-hye in the GNP 's primary to become its nominee for the 2007 Presidential election.
In plants infected with ` Rhizobium', -LRB- such as alfalfa or soybeans -RRB-, the presence of oxygen in the root nodules would reduce the activity of the oxygen-sensitive nitrogenase - an enzyme responsible for the fixation of atmospheric nitrogen.
Leghemoglobin buffers the concentration of free oxygen in the cytoplasm of infected plant cells to ensure the proper function of root nodules.
Leon was born to parents of Lithuanian Jewish extraction, and was educated at the Haberdashers' Aske 's Boys' School and then Trinity College, Cambridge -LRB- where he was President of the Cambridge Union Society -RRB-, he started his career as a lawyer.
He is a cousin of Malcolm Rifkind and Mark Ronson.
` Leptoprin' is a dietary supplement marketed by `` A.G. Waterhouse '', a child company of Basic Research ; Salt Lake City, Utah.
` Liang Wenbo' -LRB- ; born 25 March 1987, Heilongjiang, China -RRB- is a professional snooker player.
For the 2007-2008 season, he is provisionally ranked 52nd in the world.
We was an individual silver medallist and team co-winner of the snooker gold medal at the Cue sports at the 2006 Asian Games.
A sawmill made from Lincoln Logs.
` Lincoln Logs' are a toy consisting of notched miniature logs, about 3 inches -LRB- 1-2 cm -RRB- in diameter.
Analogous to real logs used in a log cabin, Lincoln Logs have notches in their ends so that small model log buildings can be built.
In addition, a Lincoln Logs set has windows and doors to make the buildings more realistic.
The sets evoke the history of the American frontier, with such sets as the ` Pony Express' or the ` Conestoga Homestead'.
The ` President of Senegal' is the head of state of Senegal.
Poochie reappears in The Simpsons Game as a boss on the ` Grand Theft Scratchy' level.
This claim is made on the grounds that literate people can be trained less expensively than illiterate people, generally have a higher socio-economic status and enjoy better health and employment prospects.
Policy makers also argue that literacy increases job opportunities and access to higher education.
In Kerala, India, for example, female and child mortality rates declined dramatically in the 1960s, when girls who were educated in the education reforms after 1948 began to raise families.
` Loiret' is a department in north-central France named after the river Loiret.
Brian Haw Brian Haw has since 2001 staged a protest in Parliament Square.
He has featured on numerous tv and radio interviews and was also featured in a number of documentaries such as Terrorstorm, Taking Liberties and The Trial of Tony Blair.
A recreation of his protest called `` State Britain '' was recently awarded the Turner Prize after being recreated by artist Mark Wallinger.
James WhaleIn October 2006, UKIP announced that talkSPORT presenter James Whale may stand against Ken Livingstone in the 2008 election.
Party leader Nigel Farage said that Whale `` not only has guts, but an understanding of what real people think ''.
The Radio Authority has told Whale that becoming Mayor would prevent him from continuing his radio show.
Whale subsequently stated on his programme that he would not be the UKIP candidate, but he has not ruled out standing for election.
UKIP have since picked another candidate.
Sound 's propagation speed depends on the type, temperature and pressure of the medium through which it propagates.
During original planning and construction -LRB- in the late 19th century -RRB- the project was subject to much opposition and controversy, because the structure blocks the view down river to the The Custom House.
` Low-carbohydrate diets' or ` low-carb diets' are dietary programs that restrict carbohydrate consumption primarily for weight control.
Apart from ` Star Wars' - themed 3D shooters, LucasArts also created the western-themed game ` Outlaws' in 1997 and ` Armed and Dangerous' -LRB- in collaboration with Planet Moon Studios -RRB- in 2003.
The Supreme Court reversed previous rulings in a vote of 5-4, ruling that the display was not an effort to advocate a particular religious message and had `` legitimate secular purposes. ''.
Sinha currently lives in Bombay with her now-retired husband and daughter Pratibha Sinha, a Bollywood actress.
The only Malaysian to qualify from an opening heat was Alex Lim Keng Liat in the men 's 100 metre backstroke.
Lim made the semifinal, but could not repeat his time from the heat in the semi, and was eliminated with a 15th place finish, the highest for the Malaysian swim team in Athens.
Shivneri fort, where Shivaji was born, is 40 km from Malshej ghat.
` Mango' is an unincorporated census-designated place in Hillsborough County, Florida, United States.
The motivations of slave owners in manumitting slaves were complex.
The following relates particularly to classical Greek and Roman forms.
Unlike Wayne Gretzky, whose greatness was due to his reading of the game and timely anticipation of players when passing -LRB- physically, Gretzky was not impressive, not being a fast skater or possessing a hard shot -RRB-, Lemieux was big, strong, and skillful and was cited as often having a unique combination of the three attributes.
Lemieux was able to successfully meld grace with aggression and played with a tough streak that had other players in fear of a physical encounter with the forward who was the size of a defenseman.
`` Mario was the one guy that could really motivate me to push my game to another level.
I knew eventually he was going to chase me down and pull me back.
That was inevitable '' - Wayne Gretzky.
Driscoll has not published a comprehensive outline of his theological beliefs -LRB- such as a systematic theology -RRB-, but his sermons, lectures, and books provide a good understanding of what he believes.
In summary, he has described himself as -LRB- in order of importance -RRB- `` first Christian, second Evangelical, third Missional, and fourth Reformed. ''.
Anderson died in England at her home in Broadway, Worcestershire in 1940.
In the Orthodox Church, Mary Magdalene is not celebrated as a penitent, but rather as a woman who lived a virtuous life.
On 23 February 2006, the Matt cartoon became available in the ` Daily Telegraph' podcast 's picture window.

The New York station was actually in Jersey City, New Jersey, with bus service to and from Manhattan.
The Metropolitan carried a large amount of mail and express, in its many baggage cars.
Statistics, including market research by Euro RSCG, show that the pursuit of achievement and status is not as important to men as it used to be ; and neither is, to a degree, the restriction of emotions or the disconnection of sex from intimacy.
Another norm change is supported by research that claimed men `` no longer find sexual freedom universally enthralling. ''.
Hence, as the concept of ` femininity' conquered more territory, ` masculinity' became more restricted.

However, Mexican and Hispanic communities are said to be more solid or separated than ever by an increase of `` enclavism '' in the late 20th century, a new form of self-segregation among non-Anglo groups, esp. in urban centers and older suburbs at the same time.
In November 1947 Michael traveled to London for the wedding of the future Queen Elizabeth II, occasion during which he met Princess Anne of Bourbon-Parma, who was to become his wife.
He returned `` at the express advice of Winston Churchill, '' who `` is said to have counseled Michael, above all things, a king must be courageous.' ''.
According to his own account, King Michael had no such intentions of not returning back to his country.
In an interview with ` The New York Times' from 2007, Michael claims he was put under pressure : `` It was blackmail.
They said, ` If you do n't sign this immediately we are obliged' -- why obliged I do n't know -- to kill more than 1,000 students that they had in prison. ''.
Le Vell appeared on Challenge TV 's Showbiz Darts in October 2006 and went on to win the tournament.
In his role as Kevin Webster, Le Vell earned thousands of admirers due to his shapely backside - Kev was barely ever seen wearing anything other than tight jeans - this also added to the stories of Michael being significantly larger than the average gentleman -LRB- he has boasted of a 10 '' asset in numerous drunken speeches -RRB-.
It seems that in virtually every episode, Kev takes the opportunity to bend and stretch his cheeks in front of the camera.
Le Vell once said of the craft of autofellatio - `` I taught Ron Jeremy everything he knows, but not everything I know ''.
He was part of Dec 's boyband on Ant & Dec 's Saturday Night Takeaway and performed `` It Only Takes A Minute '' by Take That.
He featured as a contestant on the second series of Gameshow Marathon -LRB- UK game show -RRB- on which he was crowned Gameshow Marathon champion on 26 May, 2007.
He is an avid Manchester United supporter and has done opening program intros for Setanta.
His wife is the actress Janette Beverley who starred in the 80 's comedy ` Sharon and Elsie' alongside Brigit Forsyth.
He often frequents the American Bar in Hale on Saturday nights.
In the Second Edition ` Forgotten Realms Campaign Setting', Mielikki originally came from Earth.
This was omitted from the Third Edition ` Forgotten Realms Campaign Setting'.
This reform was the result of a conflict between Neo-Hamiltonian Republicans and Jeffersonian-Jacksonian advocates over the proper administration of the state and direction of its foreign policy -- between proponents of professionalism based on business management organizations and fuller local control by available figures-including amateurs.
The Congo 's 10 military aircraft, including 3 helicopters, are operated by the Air Force.
If this is true, over thousands of years only good impersonators would survive, encouraging the evolution of mimicry.
The Genpei War is also the subject of the early Japanese epic ` The Tale of the Heike' -LRB- ` Heike Monogatari' -RRB-.
` Mission America', based in Columbus, Ohio, USA, is a Christian public policy and commentary organization founded by Linda Harvey.
The organization 's major area of focus is homosexuality from a conservative Christian viewpoint, particularly as it relates to American youth.
The group is Christian in its worldview, and discusses paganism and feminist spirituality in relation to traditional Christianity.
One of Monsanto 's greatest success stories has been Genetically Modified soyabean -LRB- Roundup Ready soya -RCB- grown and sold in Argentina.
This was good news for the farmers who saw GM soya as a cash crop which had a good export potential as feed for cattle.
Therefore, Argentinean farmers relied on GM soya as their only produce.
In 2004, there were questions being raised about the actual benefits, Anti-GM soya activists claimed that the consequences of growing RR soya in Argentina included a massive exodus of small farmers from the countryside because they could no longer make a living -LRB- as they could not afford GM soya -RRB- or were driven off their land.
It also made the farmers have to buy the GM seeds every year as the seeds produced by GM crops can not be reused.
In 1791, Herkimer, Otsego, and Tioga Counties were split off from Montgomery.
Tram route 8 directly services Moreland station, on Moreland Road, and route 19 is a short walk from the station, on Sydney Road.
Morocco won the African Nations Cup in 1976.
The format has a relatively high bit rate for the delivered quality, requiring more storage space than more modern formats for a given image quality.
Since the development of the original JPEG standard in the early 1990s, technology improvements have made intraframe compression possible.
The JPEG organization itself has developed a new design called JPEG 2000, and other types of such technology improvements can be found in the designs of H. 263v2 Annex I and MPEG-4 Part 2, which use frequency-domain prediction of transform coefficient values, and in H. 264/MPEG -4 AVC, which uses spatial prediction and adaptive transform block size techniques and more sophisticated entropy coding than what was practical when the first JPEG design was developed.

In evolutionary genetics, ` Muller 's ratchet' -LRB- named after Hermann Joseph Muller and a mechanical device -RRB- is the process by which the genomes of an asexual population accumulate deleterious mutations in an irreversible manner.
Von Markovik 's contributions to the seduction community are collected and taught as the ` Venusian Arts' by the company of the same name.
After his arrival, he organised his followers into a military system with regimental kraals, similar to those of Shaka, which became strong enough to repel the Boer attacks of 1847 - 1851 and persuade the government of the South African Republic to sign a peace treaty with him in 1852.
NASA denies these claims, for which there is no supporting evidence.

An expert NaturallySpeaking user can expect 98-99 % recognition accuracy.
Cavuto also tapes a nightly wrap up of business news which airs on local FOX affiliates during the late news and has a syndicated radio business news segment that airs on weekday afternoons.
He is the senior vice president and managing editor of business news for the Fox Business Network, and oversees content and business coverage.
The village motto, `` The Right Place at the Right Time '' was chosen in the late twentieth century by former Mayor Dorothy Sholes.
The NSW business community is represented by the NSW Business Chamber which has 30,000 members.
Brighton Green - a condominium townhouse complex on the north side of Meadow Hill Road, across from Meadow Hill Reformed Church at the end of Fletcher Drive North, opened to occupancy in 2007.
In the Wolfenstein-Boters reaction, benzene reacts with nitric acid and mercury nitrate to give picric acid.
The squadron is presently based at RAF Cottesmore with the GR .9 version of the Harrier.
Yasser Arafat, Shimon Peres, and Yitzhak Rabin were winners of the 1994 Nobel Peace Prize.
Kare Kristiansen, a Norwegian member of the Nobel Committee, resigned in 1994 in protest at the awarding of a Nobel Peace Prize to Yasser Arafat, whom he labeled a `` terrorist ''.
Rabin, while in the Israeli military, had ordered the expulsion of Arabs, from areas captured by Israel during the 1948 War.
Chicana feminist scholars including Rosalinda Fregoso link such activities and policies to a phenomenon they call ` feminicide'.
Their critique is much broader than NAFTA itself and encompasses economic patriarchy and globalization ; the premise for the connection between NAFTA and the recent exacerbation of these human rights abuses is based on Mexico 's entry into the global, neoliberal economy enacted by NAFTA.
On 2006-11-02, Novell and Microsoft announced a joint patent agreement to cover their respective products.
They also promised to work more closely together, in order to improve their software 's ability to work with other software, setting up a joint research facility to do this.
The Nuclear Football functions as the primary `` trigger '' for the United States nuclear arsenal.
The Football is carried by one of the rotating presidential military aides -LRB- one from each of the five service branches -RRB-, who occasionally is physically attached to the briefcase.
This person is a commissioned officer in the U.S. military, pay-grade O-4 or above, who has undergone the nation 's most rigorous background check -LRB- Yankee White -RRB-.
These officers, who are armed, are required to keep the Football within ready access of the president at all times.
Consequently, an aide, Football in hand, is always either standing or walking near the president or riding in Air Force One, Marine One, or the presidential motorcade with the president.
Many creationists -LRB- for example Henry M. Morris -RRB-, however, have claimed that evolution is unfalsifiable.
They claim that any fact can be fit into the evolutionary framework, and therefore it is impossible to demonstrate evolution is wrong.
In 1976, Popper himself said that `` Darwinism is not a testable scientific theory but a metaphysical research programme ''.
However, Popper later recanted, stating that that natural selection is falsifiable and offered a more nuanced view of its status :.
Military cordon in support of police taking surrender of terrorist.
He is the only one to stop the durable clubfighter Robert Hawkins and also knocked out resilient Jeff Wooden in three rounds.
The ` One-China policy' is a principle that there is one China and that mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan are all part of that ` China'.
It refers to an audacious plan drawn up by the Pakistani Army, in May 1965, to attack the vital Akhnoor Bridge in Jammu and Kashmir, which was not only the lifeline of an entire infantry division in Jammu and Kashmir but could also be used to threaten Jammu, an important logistical point for Indian forces.
The operation ended in a failure for Pakistan Army as the stated military objectives were not achieved and subsequently were forced to retreat following a counter attack by the Indian Army.
In motion pictures, an overture is a piece of music setting the mood for the film before the credits start -LRB- or during the credits -RRB-.
` Sea Produce' Seafood - yellowtail, amberjack, horse mackerel, saury, seabream, bonito, flying fish, clams, topshell, octopus, squid Others - Owase deep sea water and sea salt.
Therapeutic use of ozone is not endorsed by health authorities or medical associations in any English speaking countries, and most US states prohibit the marketing of ozone generators, its medical use, and even research and clinical trials of ozone therapy, so that doctors risk losing their medical licenses by administering or prescribing ozone therapies.
Under such circumstances the image of ozone therapy has suffered as it has on occasion been resorted to by people with incurable diseases after conventional medicine has failed them, not always with fortunate results.
After leaving the Marines, he worked for the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, in industry, and as a youth worker before being elected Liberal Member of Parliament for Yeovil in United Kingdom general election, 1983.
The United States, under Theodore Roosevelt, bought out the French equipment and excavations, and began work on May 4, 1904, after helping Panama achieve independence from Colombia.
In exchange for U.S. help in separating Panama from Colombia and setting it up as a independent nation, Panama would give the United States control of the Panama Canal Zone.
The Americans also gradually replaced the old French equipment with machinery designed for a larger scale of work, quickening the pace of construction.
President Roosevelt had the former French machinery minted into pins for all workers who spent at least two years on the construction to commemorate their contribution to the building of the canal.
Being a few eggs short of an omelet, Fargus 's maturation took a downturn after several laboratory ` mishaps' and the infamous Pancake Incident.
He ca n't even tie his shoes, be he can build a thermonuclear bomb from common household items, and set a fortress on fire before you can say Werner von Braun.
He may be an idiot savant, but he 's got great hair. ''.
Sid can cross verbal wits with the best of them.
That is, in habits, attitudes, and speech, they are similar to the people of the country 's other 2 tropical departments, Beni and Santa Cruz.
Indeed, many of Pando 's original settlers moved there from nearby Beni.
Régnier portrayed Pandora with a jar, not a box. -RSB- -RSB- The mistranslation of ` pithos', a large storage jar, as `` box `` The development of this transformation was sketched by Jane Ellen Harrison, `` Pandora 's Box '' ` The Journal of Hellenic Studies'' 20' -LRB- 1900 : 99 -- 114 -RRB- ; she traced the mistranslation as far as Lilius Giraldus of Ferrara, in his ` Historiarum Deorum Syntagma' -LRB- 1580 -RRB-, in which ` pithos' was rendered ` pyxide', and she linked the ` pithos' with the ` Pithoigia' aspect of the Athenian festival of Anthesteria. is usually attributed to the sixteenth century humanist Erasmus of Rotterdam when he translated Hesiod 's tale of Pandora into Latin.
Hesiod 's ` pithos' refers to a large storage jar, often half-buried in the ground, used for wine, oil or grain.Cf.
'' ` In the vase painting in fig. 7 from a lekythos in the University Museum of Jena we see a Pithoigia of quite other and solemn intent.
The vase-painting is in fact only another form of the scene so often represented on Athenian white lekythoi, in which the souls flutter round the grave-stele.
This was because other feudatories of the Hoysalas were also growing in power and threatening the Hoysala kingdom itself.
The challenged Hoysalas did have a foothold in and around Tiruchy and Srirangam for a few years and seemed to have indulged in some temple building activity at Srirangam also.
He first vanquished the Kadava Pallavas under Kopperinchungan-II, who had challenged the Hoysala army stationed in and around Kanchi and killed a few of their commanders.
Though Rajendra III suffered another defeat at the hands of Vira Someshwara, because of the growing power of Pandiyans being felt by both Cholas and Hoysalas, there was a political affinity between the two which was cemented also by marital relations.
A part of Mughlai cuisine, Paneer is the only type of cheese traditionally used in Indian cuisine.
It is very popular when wrapped in dough and deep-fried or served with either spinach -LRB- palak paneer -RRB- or peas -LRB- matar paneer -RRB-. In eastern India, two kinds of cheese are commonly found : ` ponir' -LRB- a hard paneer -RRB- and ` chhana' or ` chhena' -LRB- a soft paneer -RRB-.
` Panel de Pon' provides several single-player modes.
In Endless Mode, the player is challenged to play as long as possible with a continuously rising stack of blocks, which increases in speed over time.
Timed Mode challenges the player to score as many points as possible within a two-minute time limit, and Stage Clear mode takes the player through a series of stages in which the objective is to clear blocks below a set line.
A Puzzle Mode is also provided, which presents the player with a number of puzzles where he or she must clear all of the blocks in a set number of moves.
The first panel vans were manufactured by Holden and Ford in the late 1950s, but did n't become popular until the mid-1960s.
By the early 1970s, usually when based on the Holden Kingswood and Ford Falcon model of the time, panel vans had become Australian cultural icons.
Ford panel vans -LRB- known briefly as Sundowners -RRB- were also popular, to a lesser degree.
Panetti had not raised his claim that he was not competent to be executed-what lawyers call a ` Ford' claim-in his first federal habeas petition.
The Court ruled that Panetti 's petition was not barred as `` second or successive '' because his ` Ford' claim did not become ripe until his execution was imminent.
`` An empty formality requiring prisoners to file unripe ` Ford' claims neither respects the limited legal resources available to the States nor encourages the exhaustion of state remedies. ''.
Accordingly, Panetti 's ` Ford' claim was not barred by the second-or-successive rule, and the Court had jurisdiction to entertain Panetti 's appeal.
After a few minutes, the enemy launched a counter attack against Platoon 8.
At that same time Major Ismail with Platoon 9 faced an attack from another group of enemy.
In this position, he and his group exchanged fire with the enemy, successfully killing another and wounding a few of the enemy.
The enemy was estimated to be some 70 strong and armed with automatic weapons and high explosives.
A ` panhandle' or ` salient' is an informal geographic term for an elongated tail-like protrusion of a geo-political entity, such as an administrative division or a sovereign state that extends into another such entity as a peninsula extends into the sea.
The former `` folksy '' term derives from the analogous part of a cooking pan and its use is generally confined to the United States.
A panhandle is similar to a peninsula in shape, but unlike a peninsula it is not surrounded by water on three sides -LRB- but may have water on one or two sides, like Florida 's panhandle -RRB- and connected to a geographical mainland, but is a land region surrounded on three sides by land regions not of the same jurisdiction.
The panhandle shape is the result of arbitrarily drawn international or subnational boundaries, although the location of some administrative borders takes into account other considerations such as economic ties or topography.
Light bulbs burned out often, giving the impression that the company had gone too far in cutting costs.
It had no steering wheel lock but, in the U. S., its unusual controls appeared to make it almost theft proof.
This made them all easy to find, but one could confuse the turn signal and high beam motions.Lubrication required a more versatile lift than was available in many gas stations, at that time.It was always cited as the example of car aerodynamics -LRB- though the Kamm principle was not yet used -RRB-.
About 30 % of people with panic disorder use alcohol and 17 % use other psychoactive drugs.
This is in comparison with 61 % -LRB- alcohol -RRB- and 7.9 % -LRB- other psychoactive drugs -RRB- of the general population who use alcohol and psychoactive drugs, respectively.
Utilization of recreational drugs or alcohol generally make symptoms worse -LRB- American Psychiatric Association : Practice guideline for the treatment of patients with panic disorder.
Cannabis commonly precipitates panic in panic patients.
Nevertheless, the expanding Prague encompassed the prison within several decades.
During Nazi German occupation in 1939-1945 thousands of Czech people, from members of the Resistance to black marketeers, were detained here before having been sent to execution, to another prison within Germany or to concentration camp.
Between April 5, 1943 and April 26, 1945 a total of 1,079 people were beheaded by guillotine in Pankrác.
In the last decades before the abolition of capital punishment in Czechoslovakia the vast majority of executions -LRB- by hanging -RRB- took place here, the last in 1989.
The meetings took place in several tents set up on the north side of the Kaesong-Seoul road on the west bank of the Sa ` cheon stream ; the village, a small cluster of less than ten huts, was opposite the negotiation site on the south side.
The eighteen copies of Volume I and II of the armistice were signed by the Senior Delegates of each side in a building constructed by both sides over a 48-hour period -LRB- North Korea provided labor and some supplies, the United Nations Command provided some supplies, generators and lighting to allow the work to continue at night -RRB-.
After the cease-fire was signed, construction began in September 1953 on a new site located approximately one kilometer east of the village ; this is the Joint Security Area and all meetings between North Korea and the United Nations Command or South Korea have taken place here since its completion.
The JSA is often, mistakenly, called Panmunjeom.
At Le Mans, the two factory Panozes were joined by the Den Bla Avis Panoz that had had a best finish of third so far in the Sports Racing World Cup.
The other four cars took fifth, sixth, eighth, and fifteenth.
Panoz would not manage another podium finish in the ALMS until the seventh round, followed by another at Portland.
The defending Petit Le Mans winners would once again lose to BMW by taking only third and fourth at the event, before closing out the season without another podium.
On May, 2001, two researchers from the University of Naples claimed to have found live extraterrestrial bacteria inside a meteorite.
Geologist Bruno D'Argenio and molecular biologist Giuseppe Geraci claim the bacteria were wedged inside the crystal structure of minerals, but were resurrected when a sample of the rock was placed in a culture medium.
They believe that the bacteria were not terrestrial because they survived when the sample was sterilized at very high temperature and washed with alcohol.
They also claim that the bacteria 's DNA is unlike any on Earth.
Theater I consists of the more basic aspects of theater such as the history behind it or improvisation, but as the class gets higher with every level, the students learns many more of the details that go into theater.
Mr. Cox 's classes usually have a few end-of-class performances containing every one of his students performing separate scenes.
The Theatre I & II classes usually have written scenes and the Theatre III and IV classes have scenes that the Theatre III students act in while the Theatre IV students are the directors.
These are performed for other classes or during SMART lunch near the end of the semester.
Females are generally much smaller, about half the size.
Coloration varies with location, and the different color patterns of Panther Chameleons are commonly referred to as ` locales', which are named after the geographical location in which they are found.
There are numerous other color phases, and patterns differ between and within regions.
Female Panther Chameleons generally remain tan and brown no matter what region they are from, but there are slight differences in patterns and colors among the different color phases.
These docile, harmless snakes use several tricks to try and scare away predators.
They may shake their tails in dry leaves to trick other animals into thinking that they are rattlesnakes.
They can also give off a stinky musk from glands near their tail, to make them smell less appetizing to other animals.
As a last resort, these snakes may hiss loudly and strike at the threat, to try and bluff their way to safety.
Prices on new hardware such as digital cameras, printers, computers, and other electronics can be significantly lower than in Western countries, but products are often factory seconds or refurbished goods.
However, stores commonly offer to give purchasers a discount if the purchaser does not take a receipt, thereby allowing the stores to falsify their VAT tax reports.
Note that this is often a bad deal for the traveling foreign purchaser, since the purchaser would have been refunded the full amount of the VAT at the airport, and the `` discount '' is invariably smaller than the VAT tax would have been.
Also, for warranty service, manufacturers usually require a receipt to show proof of purchase.
In its most basic form the pantun consists of a quatrain which employs an abab rhyme scheme.
A pantun is traditionally recited according to a fixed rhythm and as a rule of thumb, in order not to deviate from the rhythm, every line should contain between eight and 12 syllables.
The pantun is highly allusive and in order to understand it readers generally need to know the traditional meaning of the symbols the poem employs.
A single performer relates the tales the story of a hero 's initiation ; the protagonist leaves his kingdom in order to seek experiences, beautiful princesses to become his wife, power, other kingdoms to subject, the realization of a dream -LRB- Rosidi 1984a :143 -RRB- ; after having succeeded in reaching his goal he finally returns to his kingdom.
Alongside memories of historical events the stories often contain mythical elements.
Pantun were not written down, the bards often being illiterate, in many case blind.
The form of the pantun was not strictly fixed ; however, the dominant language from employed in most pantun was the octosyllabic verse.
They remove the appearance of blemishes, making the legs `` perfect ''. \ n The reflectiveness of the material, coupled with the way they appear less transparent at the edges, often gives legs more contrast and definition, as though lit by dramatic lighting.
This vulnerability is often sexually attractive, and can often result in the women engaging in shoe dangling or shoe play which is also appealing to shoe and foot fetishists.
In American English, the term pantyhose refers to a garment traditionally worn by women, at least since their introduction in 1959.
Now, the sight of a man wearing pantyhose or opaque tights on any major city in the U.S. attracts barely even a second glance.
` Panzer II' is the common name of a German tank used in World War II.
Designed as a stopgap while other tanks were developed, it played an important role in the early years of World War II, during the Polish and French campaigns.
By the end of 1942 it was largely removed from frontline service and production of the tank itself ceased by 1943, but its chassis was used for several other armored vehicles.In 1934, delays in the design and production of the Panzer III and Panzer IV tanks were becoming apparent.
Production began in 1935, but it took another eighteen months for the first combat-ready tank to be delivered.
The Panzergrenadier divisions were organized as combined arms formations, usually with six battalions of truck-mounted infantry organized into either two or three regiments, a battalion of tanks, and an ordinary division 's complement of artillery, reconnaissance units, combat engineers, anti-tank and anti-aircraft artillery, and so forth.
All these support elements would also be mechanized in a PzGren. division, though most of the artillery, anti-tank, and anti-aircraft elements were equipped with weapons towed by trucks rather than the relatively rare armored and self-propelled models.
In practice the PzGren. divisions were often equipped with heavy assault guns rather than tanks, due to a chronic shortage of tanks throughout the German armed forces.
A few elite units, on the other hand, might have the tanks ` plus' a battalion of heavy assault guns for their anti-tank element, and armored carriers for some of their infantry battalions as well.
In 1941, when the Germans encountered the new Soviet tank designs such as the T-34, they quickly discovered the effectiveness of the high explosive anti-tank -LRB- HEAT -RRB- round which many of their early tanks such as the Panzer IV were equipped with against this new threat.
Later in the fighting in Africa, German troops captured many Allied bazooka in North Africa as well as some lend-lease versions on the Eastern front.
The German Military tampered with the Panzerschreck for years often to no avail.
One variation was created and was known as the Shriekenpeip, which had a similar relationship with the Panzerschreck as the Raketenpanzerbüchse had with the M1A1 Bazooka.
Two hours later, I can tell you, he had won the respect of the others.
He was making proper changesIn a madison race, one rider races as the other circles the track slowly, to rest.
It demands not only acrobatic skill and strength but the talent to get near the other rider in the first place, riding at 50kmh on a 250m track with up to 30 riders moving at different speeds., he was taking part in the race and he was going better and better.
The others could n't believe their eyes -LSB- ` commencaient a ne plus voir le jour' -RSB-.. ''.
He was succeeded by other members of the Cagliari family, of whom most or all were outlived by Farinato.
His first major work was an altarpiece for the duomo di Mantua.
The introduction of the electric power in the houses of Trento, the `` democratic light '', as he had defined, created workplaces and promoted the well-being of the popular classes, giving impulse to industrialization.
At the same time Mazzurana promoted a series of studies in order to create an electrical tramway net, in order to permit workers to reach Trento from the surrounding area.
Amongst the most important realizations are the new urban planning of the city, the new School Palace -LRB- currently School of Sociology -RRB-, the renovation of the area of the railway station, the Kindergarten, and the new quarters opened for the labourers.
During that time he also served as organist for various formal occasions around the city, and eventually he became private chamberlain to Pope Gregory XV.
In the early centuries of Christianity the Bishop of Rome -LRB- like other bishops -RRB- was chosen by the consensus of the clergy and people of Rome.Baumgartner, Frederic J. -LRB- 2003 -RRB- ` Behind Locked Doors : A History of the Papal Elections', p. 4 ; New York : Palgrave MacMillan The body of electors was more precisely defined when, in 1059, the College of Cardinals was designated the sole body of electors.'.
The Pope may change the procedures for electing his successor by issuing an apostolic constitution ; the procedures were established by Pope John Paul II in his constitution ` Universi Dominici Gregis' and amended by a ` motu proprio' of Pope Benedict XVI dated 11 June 2007.
A two-thirds majority of the electorate is required to elect the new pope.
Are represented with some care, such as the nostrils, mouth, the eye just mentioned, the ear.
Below the great figure of a bull is cut, much more subtly, another figure of bovine animals to which they are executed only the chest, his head and part of the back.
In front of the rock with the bovine animals there is another of about 3.50 meters long, with a linear cut of meaning apparently incomprehensible.
In the cave, visited by many tourists, you can see, the place of their discovery, the reproductions of tomb dated around 9200 years BC, Each containing a pair of individuals arranged in a well-defined ritual.One of these pairs of burial was found in the cave and two other couples in the shelter, not far from the rock with the figure of the bull.
The game 's visuals received a mixed response from critics.
GameSpot enjoyed the game 's presentation, writing that `` it exhibits a level of visual artistry and technical prowess matched or exceeded by few other GameCube games ''.
RPGamer commented that the music `` for the most part is done very well '', but that the perceived repetitive battle music was `` one of the biggest flaws '' of the game.
In the video, several paper planes fly over New York City.
M.I.A. appears as an immigrant who sells sandwiches from a van to several other New Yorkers.
At the sound of the gunshots, quick shots of street signs, people, and restaurant signs appear.
She can be seen wearing a Metallica ` Ride the Lightning' shirt in several parts of the music video.
And we were best of friends.
And we hoped for the best.
While this could understandably be about Ben Harper, he and Key only met in high school, whereas Key and Shad knew each other their entire lives.
` Paper marbling' is a method of aqueous surface design, which can produce patterns similar to marble or other stone, hence the name.
The patterns are the result of color floated on either plain water or a viscous solution known as size, and then carefully transferred to a sheet of paper -LRB- or other surfaces such as fabric -RRB-.
This decorative material has been used to cover a variety of surfaces for several centuries.
It is often employed as a writing surface for calligraphy, and especially book covers and endpapers in bookbinding and stationery.
A ` paper popper' is a party prank that is commonly practiced in public schools.
There a many variations of a paper popper, but they all involve a folded sheet of paper being gripped and thrusted down, causing air to be forced into the paper 's folded flaps, making the paper flaps pop out in the opposite direction at a high velocity, thus making a loud popping noise.
In addition to the A series, there is a less common B series.
So, B1 is between A0 and A1 in size, with an area of 0.71 m2 -LRB- ? 0.5 -RRB-. As a result, B0 has two sides 1 metre long, and other sizes in the B series have two sides that are half, a quarter or an eighth etc of a metre.
Many posters use B-series paper or a close approximation, such as 50 cm × 70 cm ; B5 is a relatively common choice for books.
` SUB -LRB- Solid Unbleached Board -RRB-' is a board made from unbleached chemical pulp -LRB- yellow -RRB- or recycled material -LRB- grey -RRB-.
There is some controversy surrounding Boyington 's AVG victory claims.
Boyington also felt that the AVG staff wrongly calculated claims from a raid on Chiang Mai, Thailand.
Boyington apparently decided that the two pilots who flew top cover should not have shared in the bounty, though it was often the case that when a pilot was shot down victory credits were equally shared among all taking part in the raid.
Three under par -LRB- -3 -RRB- ; often called a ` double eagle'.
Extremely rare, and occur most commonly on par-fives with a strong drive and a holed approach shot.
Holes-in-one on par-four holes -LRB- generally short ones -RRB- are also albatrosses.
The most famous albatross was made by Gene Sarazen in 1935, which propelled him into a tie for first at The Masters Tournament.
A parable is often described as' a story that uses earthly -LRB- or temporal -RRB- elements to teach a heavenly -LRB- or eternal -RRB- lesson.'.
In Matthew 13, Jesus had been using several parables to tell the people about different aspects of the Kingdom of Heaven.
According to the gospels, Jesus' audience, as well as his disciples, often misunderstood these parables.
In fact, in the same chapter as this parable, Jesus' disciples had just come to him and asked, `` Why do you speak to the people in parables ? ''.
Retrieved on 06-04-2009. Young men 's Catholic Association,, Vol. 7, Burns and Oates, London, 1878. Retrieved on 06-04-2009. Michael Sullivan,, Revised and expanded edition. Retrieved on 06-04-2009. Lying in the most northeastern of the Paracel Islands, at the coordinates of 16.97 degrees North and 112.28 degrees East, the group consists of six low narrow islands with sand cays ; enclose shallow lagoons, connected by reefs of rock, and about 37 km northwest from Lincoln Island.
Together they form the upper branch of an ellipse of 22 km long semimajor axis that approximately orientates from west to east.
The southern section consists of two islands called Woody and Rocky Islands lying very near each other.
The former located approximately 5 km southwards from the southern tip of the east extremity of the northern section.
Before the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea 's -LRB- UNCLOS III -RRB- addendums to the Law of the Sea, the Central government had always maintained a staggering claim to nearly 3.5 million km2 in maritime area of the South China Sea, which equated to roughly one-third of China 's total land area.
Although many Chinese maps published after UNCLOS III still retain these dashed lines, they have no legal value and are used solely as a reference line to denote that `` all features -LRB- islands, reefs, banks, shoals, cays, sands -RRB- located within the dashed lines are sovereign territory of the People 's Republic of China ''.
Coupled with officially published laws of the past, China 's new internal waters and territorial waters, namely, China 's `` blue territories '', could thus be calculated to an area of approximately 31,000 km2.
Genetic polymorphisms in CYP2D6 may contribute to significantly different rates of production of NAPQI.
Although CYP2D6 metabolises paracetamol into NAPQI to a lesser extent than other P450 enzymes, its activity may contribute to paracetamol toxicity in extensive and ultrarapid metabolisers, and when paracetamol is taken at very large doses.
One way of presenting the semantics for LP is to replace the usual functional valuation with a relational one.LP is also commonly presented as a many-valued logic with three truth values -LRB- ` true', ` false', and ` both' -RRB-.
A formula must be assigned ` at least' one truth value, but there is no requirement that it be assigned ` at most' one truth value.
The semantic clauses for negation and disjunction are given as follows : \ n V -LRB- \ neg A ,1 -RRB- \ Leftrightarrow V -LRB- A ,0 -RRB- \ n V -LRB- \ neg A ,0 -RRB- \ Leftrightarrow V -LRB- A ,1 -RRB- \ n V -LRB- A \ lor B ,1 -RRB- \ Leftrightarrow V -LRB- A ,1 -RRB- \ or \ V -LRB- B ,1 -RRB- \ n V -LRB- A \ lor B ,0 -RRB- \ Leftrightarrow V -LRB- A ,0 -RRB- \ and \ V -LRB- B ,0 -RRB- -LRB- The other logical connectives are defined in terms of negation and disjunction as usual. -RRB- Or to put the same point less symbolically : \ n ` not A' is true if and only if ` A' is false \ n ` not A' is false if and only if ` A' is true \ n' A or B' is true if and only if ` A' is true or ` B' is true \ n' A or B' is false if and only if ` A' is false and ` B' is false -LRB- Semantic -RRB- logical consequence is then defined as truth-preservation : : \ Gamma \ vDash A if and only if A \, is true whenever every element of \ Gamma \, is true.Now consider a valuation V \, such that V -LRB- A ,1 -RRB- \, and V -LRB- A ,0 -RRB- \, but it is not the case that V -LRB- B ,0 -RRB- \,.
For this reason, proponents of LP usually advocate expanding the system to include a stronger conditional connective that is not definable in terms of negation and disjunction.See, for example, Priest -LRB- 2002 -RRB-, § 5.
Lincoln Center was the other producer solely responsible for covering the weekly running costs.'.
Compared to most Protestant organisations they parade relatively infrequently, their main parades being on Saint Patrick 's Day, at Easter, and on Lady Day.
At various points during the Troubles the Hibernians offered to voluntarily cease parading if Protestant groups would do the same.K.P.
One important aspect of Kuhn 's paradigms is that the paradigms are incommensurable, which means that two paradigms can not be reconciled with each other because they can not be subjected to the same measure or common standard of comparison.
That is, no meaningful comparison between them is possible without fundamental modifications in the concepts which are part of the paradigms being compared.
This way of looking at the concept of `` paradigm '' creates a paradox of sorts, since competing paradigms are in fact constantly being compared with each other.
This definition makes it clear that the real barrier to comparison is not necessarily the absence of common units of measure, but an absence of mutually compatible or mutually intelligible concepts.
Milton 's first criticism of idolatry focuses on the practice of constructing temples and other buildings to serve as places of worship.
While Adam attempts to build an altar to God, critics note Eve is similarly guilty of idolatry, but in a different manner.
Specifically, Harding claims that '' ... under the serpent 's influence, Eve 's idolatry and self-deification foreshadow the errors into which her ` Sons' will stray. ''.
Much like Adam, Eve falsely places her faith into herself, the Tree of Knowledge, and to some extent, the Serpent, all of which do not compare to the ideal nature of God.
According to the Australian War Memorial website, there were nearly 100 people, including children and wounded, on the beach after abandoning ship.
While he was away Matron Irene Drummond, the most senior of the Australian nurses, suggested that the civilian women and children should start off walking towards Muntok.
Having separated the men from the women prisoners, the Japanese divided the men into two groups, and marched them along the beach and behind a headland.
They swept up and down the line and the girls fell one after the other.
The genus ranges across Africa and Asia, as well as a number of islands.
The species also occurs on a number of islands, including those of Indonesia and the Philippines, Taiwan, and Japan, as well as Madagascar, the Mascarenes and the Seychelles in the Indian Ocean and Sao Tome off Africa 's Atlantic coast.
If Enterprise is afoot, wealth accumulates whatever may be happening to Thrift ; and if Enterprise is asleep, wealth decays whatever Thrift may be doing.
Thus, Thrift may bethe handmaiden of Enterprise.
But equally she may not.
In early March 1943, the test flight with several of these paradummies took place at an airfield near the coast of Chesapeake Bay.
Three observation groups standing at various distances shared in writing their impressions with the navy.
The government and the safety service is trying to suppress every possible knowledge of physics, which could lead to verify if the statements about what Paradise is, explained to Paradisians, are true.
The main hero discovered this, when he was trying to verify if the forces really differ on every floor : all things that would be used to make such an experiment -LRB- even such as a spring from his ballpen -RRB- have been taken from him by the customs officers and there are no other things for that accessible.
Then he discovers that minutes on clocks in living rooms are not equal to each other.
In addition, Tartar is a planet quite well suitable for settlement and the governing force build for itself also some buildings and gardens, keeping the majority of settlers in the fictional Paradise.
In industrial applications, it is often useful to modify the crystal properties of the paraffin wax, typically by adding branching to the existing carbon backbone chain.
The modification is usually done with additives, such as EVA copolymers, microcrystalline wax, or forms of polyethylene.
Pure paraffin wax is rarely used for carving original models for casting metal and other materials in the lost wax process, as it is relatively brittle at room temperature and presents the risks of chipping and breakage when worked.
Soft and pliable waxes, like beeswax, may be preferred for such sculpture, but `` investment casting waxes, '' often paraffin-based, are expressly formulated for the purpose.
The extreme force over teeth can occur during some situations, as a reflex of protection.
It is a protective reflex, although it is considered parafunctional : over clenching.
When this kind of reflex acts it is very important to have a good memory of `` best bite '' position.
If not, during process, some tooth may be improperly overloaded causing fractures.
It fell to Earth at approximately 4:08 a.m. on February 17, 1930. It could be seen as far away as Illinois, Indiana, Missouri, Kansas, and of course, Arkansas.
The meteorite split into many pieces.
The largest piece was discovered by W. H. Hodges in an 8 foot -LRB- 2 m -RRB- hole on his farm a few miles southwest of Finch, Arkansas, near Paragould.
Two other pieces were found, one weighing 33 kg -LRB- presently stored in Washington, D.C. -RRB- and another 3.75 kg piece presently resides in New York.
Paraguay was obviously stung by the upsurge in opposition activities, Stroessner condemned the Accord for advocating `` sabotage of the general elections and disrespect of the law '' and used the national police and civilian vigilantes of the Colorado Party to break up demonstrations.
Hermes Rafael Saguier, another key leader of the PRLA, was imprisoned for four months in 1987 on charges of sedition.
In early February 1988, police arrested 200 people attending a National Coordinating Committee meeting in Coronel Oviedo.
Each cog has access to some dedicated counter/timer hardware, and a special timing signal generator intended to simplify the design of video output stages, such as composite PAL or NTSC displays -LRB- including modulation for broadcast -RRB- and VGA monitors.
Parallax thus makes sample code available which can generate video signals -LRB- text and somewhat low-resolution graphics -RRB- using a minimum parts count consisting of the Propeller, a crystal oscillator, and a few resistors to form a crude DAC.
It is possible to use multiple cogs in parallel to generate a single video signal.
More generally, the timing hardware can be used to implement various pulse-width modulated -LRB- PWM -RRB- timing signals.
A routine performed on the parallel bars must include various elements that depend on the gymnast 's competitive level.
The basic swings may be modified in order to execute various flips and turns.
Also, parallel bar routines often feature a strength or static hold skill.
A common dismount is a ` back off', in which the gymnast swings forward in a front support -LRB- between the bars -RRB- and then executes a backflip over one of the bars, landing in a standing position next to the apparatus.
All other universes are increasingly distorted `` shadows '' of it, ending finally at the other extreme, Chaos, which is the complete negation of the prototype.
Travel between these `` shadow '' universes is only possible by beings descended from the blood of this pantheon.
Those `` of the blood '' can walk through Shadow, imagining any possible reality and then walk to it, making their environment more similar to their desire as they go.
Classification is split into four groups ; BC1 : Athletes are either throwers or foot players -LRB- with cerebral palsy -RRB-.
Athletes may compete with an assistant BC2 : For throwing players -LRB- with cerebral palsy -RRB-.
Players may not have an assistantBC3 : Athletes -LRB- with severe disability -RRB- who use an assistive device and may be assisted by a person, but this assistant must keep their back to the court.BC4 : For throwing players.
Players may not have an assistant -LRB- Non cerebral palsy -RRB-.
Men in Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Bihar and Orissa generally enter careers in uniformed services, such as the military, police and paramilitary forces.
Those in Gujarat often enter business professions, while those in Rajasthan and Sindh take government and police jobs, though most are agrarian.
Maharashtrian and Sindhi Paramaras often choose professions in agriculture or government services, with a particular tendency not to venture out of their home state.
This may be because Marathi and Sindhi Paramaras -LRB- and, to a certain extent, the Punjabi Paramaras -RRB- have adopted the language and culture of their adopted regions, unlike the Hindi - or Urdu-speaking Paramaras.
Thickly forested with strands of Bamboo, Sandalwood, Rosewood and Teak, the sanctuary has some marshy land and scattered patches of grassland.
However, most of them have now been replaced by Teak plantations.
All public ambulance services are currently operated by regional entities, most often ` trusts', under the authority of the National Health Service.
Most services train these individuals internally, using a common curriculum.
Paramedics also work in the inter-facility transport environment where a paramedic will continue or upgrade medical care to a higher level while transporting a patient from one healthcare facility to another.
Paramedics usually transport patients to a hospital-based emergency department, but paramedics can treat patients out of the hospital setting and then not transport the patient to the hospital -LRB- e.g. a paramedic gives a diabetic patient 50 % dextrose in water -RRB-.
There are currently substantial efforts in Australia to change this situation, most notably through the Australian College of Ambulance Professionals.
Prior to the 1990s most paramedics were known as '' ` ambulance officers' ''.
Even so, they, as most other paramedics in Canada, are permitted to perform regulated medical acts by the process of ` delegation'.
Medical directors are generally ER physicians who work in a hospital associated with the paramedic service.
Other physicians in the base hospital who are allowed to give direct orders to paramedics that exceed their protocols -LRB- often via telephone -RRB- are referred to as delegating physicians.
These physicians are usually ER physicians.
An Associate 's degree program is 2 years, often administered through a community college.
Degree programs are an option, with two year Associate 's degree programs being most common, although four year Bachelor 's degree programs exist.
In addition, most locales require that paramedics attend ongoing refresher courses to maintain their license or certification.
In addition to state and national registry certifications, most paramedics are required to be certified in Pediatric Advanced Life Support, Pediatric Prehospital care or Pediatric Emergencies for the Prehospital Provider ; Prehospital Trauma Life Support ; International Trauma Life Support ; and Advanced Cardiac Life Support.
A parametric equaliser is an audio filter that allows the frequency of maximum cut or boost to be set by one control, and the size of the cut or boost by another.
More elaborate parametric equalisers may allow other parameters to be varied, such as skew.
These parameters each describe some aspect of the response curve seen as a whole, over all frequencies.
A graphic equaliser provides individual level controls for various frequency bands, each of which acts only on that particular frequency band.
On the other hand, parametric formulae are often simpler to write down and faster to compute.
Historical Background1960sPart of the earliest history of paramilitarism in Colombia goes back to the 1960s, when U.S. President John F. Kennedy and his government promoted a proxy war under regional security initiatives such as Plan LASO -LRB- Latin American Security Operation -RRB-, ostensibly to counter the possible extension of Soviet influence in the region at the hands of guerrilla insurgents and local Communist Parties.
As a result, small groups of civilians throughout Latin America were armed and trained as guides, informants and/or security collaborators by local and foreign military officers, with the intention of providing aid in counterinsurgency operations and/or subsequently establishing a permanent citizen militia and intelligence network if possible.
In the specific case of Colombia, Plan LASO was implemented as a military offensive in the southern Tolima Department against Communists, radicalized Liberal guerrillas and self-defense militias, which had set up one of several autonomous enclaves known as Marquetalia.
The Commander of the Colombian Army and later Defense Minister -LRB- 1962-1965 -RRB-, General Alberto Ruiz Novoa, was a veteran of the Korean War and was influenced by contemporary US military war doctrines, receiving recommendations from a team of military experts which visited the country in February 1962.
Armed constabulary are usually not in contact with the public until they are assigned to VIP duty or assigned to maintain order during fairs, festivals, athletic events, elections, and natural disasters.
They may also be sent to quell outbreaks of student or labor unrest, organized crime, and communal riots ; to maintain key guard posts ; and to participate in antiterrorist operations.
Depending on the type of assignment, the Provincial Armed Constabulary may carry only lathis or they may be equipped with infantry weapons.
In epigenetics, ` paramutation' is an interaction between two alleles of a single locus, resulting in a heritable change of one allele that is induced by the other allele.
Paramutation violates Mendel 's first law, which states that in the process of the formation of the gametes -LRB- egg or sperm -RRB- the allelic pairs separate, one going to each gamete, and that each gene remains completely uninfluenced by the other.
In paramutation an allele in one generation heritably affects the other allele in future generations, even if the allele causing the change is itself not transmitted.
What may be transmitted in such a case are RNAs such as piRNAs, siRNAs, miRNAs or other regulatory RNAs.
Although more typical of the periodic paralytic disorders, patients with PC may also have potassium provoked paralysis.
Patients with this disorder commonly present with myotonia in the face or upper extremities.
The lower extremities are generally less affected.
Today, all findings are kept in the museum of Epirus, and in other museums abroad.
Today, these sculptures lie in several museums in London, Russia and Constantinople.
There are also different Muslim groups in Parangipettai, particularly the Maraicars and Sahibs.
Then, with the constant trade touch and inspiration over the new faith may have changed themselves to Muslims.
Sometimes in common usage, the term ` paranoia' is misused to describe a phobia.
For example, a person may not want to fly out of fear the plane may crash.
The lack of blame in this case usually points to the latter.
An important feature of paranoid thinking is its centrality : that the paranoid person perceives themselves as central figures in an experienced scenario which may be either dangerous -LRB- persecutory -RRB- or self-exalting -LRB- grandiose -RRB- and interprets events which have no reference to them in reality as directed at or about them.
There are four recognized species, ` Pp. jonesi', ` Pp. whitei', ` Pp. broomi', and ` Pp. antiquus', but these taxonomic designations have generated some controversy.
However, variation in molar size in ` Pp. broomi' overlaps the other two.
Since there may be no significant difference between mean tooth sizes or isotopic signatures in ` Pp. broomi' and ` Pp. jonesi', these may represent a single sexually dimorphic species.
The sample of ` Pp. jonesi' -LRB- STS 565 -RRB- differs enough in facial characteristics that it remains distinctive from other ` Parapapio' species.
Laboratory and field research is conducted through private institutions and a small number of universities worldwide.
Privately-funded units at universities in the United Kingdom are among the most active today.
Britain is a lead player, with privately funded labs at the universities of Edinburgh, Northampton and Liverpool Hope, among others. ''.
This book on `` SOIL '' has been written in a very simple and straightforward manner, which is easy to understand by anyone who may have a simple academic background of general science.
It is based on the Classification System developed in the United States of America and is agreed upon by the Soil Scientists of the most parts of the world.
This is possible only when we consider all aspects of soil 's properties and focus on its individuality, as it exists at a particular location and time.
The purpose of this book is to bring awareness in the minds of people of the world that soil is a living identity and must be used with utmost care.
The emphysematous areas are subpleural in location and often surrounded by interlobular septa -LRB- hence the name -RRB-.
It may be an incidental finding in young adults, and may be associated with spontaneous pneumothorax.
It may also be seen in older patients with centrilobular emphysema.
Both centrilobular and paraseptal emphysema may progress to bullous emphysema.
The credits for ` Parash Pathar' are presented not in Bengali -LRB- the language used for credits in almost all of Satyajit Ray 's films -RRB-, not even in English, but in French.
In this film, he is merely one of the several guests at the cocktail party.
Karna, half brother of Pandavas took instruction in weaponry from Parashurama, a disciple of lord Shiva, and was known to have terrible temper having lost his father to the evil Asuras.
The parashu was known to have super natural powers.
Hymenopteran parasitoids often have fascinating life histories.
A caterpillar chewing these leaves may unknowingly swallow some of the eggs, and when they get into the caterpillar 's gut, they hatch and burrow through the gut wall and into the body cavity.
They search the caterpillar 's body cavity for other parasitoid larva, and it is these they attack and feed on.
Once in a caterpillar or sawfly larva, some trigonalids need their vehicle to fall prey to a social wasp.
Later studies have led to the identification of two additional proteins that are likely components of the paraspeckle.
In 2004 Dettwiler et al. revealed CFI -LRB- m -RRB- 68 as a possible component of the paraspeckle.
Fox et al. 's 2005 article also contains evidence of a possible fifth protein component of the paraspeckle : PSF.
If PSF is in fact part of the paraspeckle that would help further substantiate an assertion by Myojin, et al. that paraspeckle components may participate in pre-mRNA splicing.
As such, this fish is an ideal aquarium fish if given the appropriate environment and tank mates for a medium sized aggressive cichlid.
They eat most commercial fish foods, such as flakes, pellets, frozen, and alike.
` P. polleni' displays the same kind of ` intelligent' behavior common to other cichlids.
They can be trained to eat from the hand and will recognize and approach their owner -LRB- and often retreat from an unfamiliar person -RRB-.
If they display full coloration, non-dominant and sub-dominant individuals of any size will often suffer aggression from the alpha individual -LRB- s -RRB-.
For this reason, there is generally only one or two fully colored individuals in an aquarium with many specimens.
These traits may contribute to the relative obscurity of ` P. polleni' in the hobby.
` Paravar' denotes the people of coastal region settled in southern districts of Tamil Nadu.
As many as 60 Tamil Brahmi inscriptions were found during the past over 100 years from 15 villages including, Mangualm, Anaimalai, Azhagarmalai, Tiruvadavur, Keezhavalavu, Tirupparankundram and Varichiyur.
The ` bumper boats' are most easily described as dodgem cars on a lake.
People wishing to go on this ride simply climb up some stairs, then sit in a small dinghy when one becomes available.
This may result in some wetness, but enough to cope with on a sunny French day.
They have obtained pictures of people reaching the bottom of the slides, with arms outstretched and an expression of pleasure and fun on their faces.
To the extent that such an award conflicts with the best interests of the child, the courts will treat it as void in respect of the child, even though it might be binding on the parents.
The test of the best interests of the child can always be the basis of a challenge by a parent, grandparent, an interested relative, or the child acting through a friend.
During each date, the parents and the current partner watch and comment, often antagonistically, as the date unfolds on television.
First, one of the three is picked to leave before the other two.
The whole process often results in unpleasant behavior from the two who were eliminated.
In some occasions, the child chooses neither the current significant other nor the dates that his or her parents set up for the child.
Based on the evaluation of PAS, courts in the US have awarded sole custody to some fathers.
Despite Gardner claiming PAS was generally accepted by the scholarly community and passed the Frye test in two states, a 2006 analysis of court cases involving PAS and cited by Gardner concluded that these decisions did not set legal precedent, that PAS is viewed negatively in most legal scholarship, and that Gardner 's writings do not support the existence of PAS.
Both held PAS inadmissible and one case found that PAS failed the Frye test as the appropriate professional community did not generally accept ; this decision was upheld in an appellate court.
Gardner listed fifty cases on his website that he claimed set precedents that made PAS admissible, but none actually did ; forty six set no precedents or did not discuss admissibility and the remaining four were problematic.
` Part 2 Upbringing by Cooperatio n'The higher level of communication is reached when a parent and a child cooperate in achievement of the common goal.
This common goal can be a challenging project.
He also states that `` no one from the outside can improve relationships between two people. ''.
In some cases, rocking the head from side to side will painlessly remove the `` pins and needles '' sensation in less than a minute.
A tingly hand or arm is often the result of compression in the bundle of nerves in the neck.
An arm that has `` fallen asleep '' may also be `` awoken '' more quickly by clenching and unclenching the fist several times ; the muscle movement increases blood flow and helps the limb return to normal.
However, in some cases this clenching action simply exacerbates the discomfort.
In other words, when one compares the two lists of conditions side by side, one finds that ` a' -RRB- the WPO list contains ` some but not all' of the conditions found on the SPO list and ` b' -RRB- the WPO list contains ` no' conditions ` not found' on the SPO list -RRB-.
The logical consequence may be paraphrased in both of two ways, the only difference being one of emphasis and resulting from how one distributes the negation : ` a' -RRB- Every allocation that satisfies the conjunction of the conditions for SPO status also -LRB- and by virtue of its satisfying that conjunction -RRB- satisfies the conjunction of the conditions for WPO status, and ` b' -RRB- the conjunction of conditions for WPO status disqualifies only a subset of the allocations disqualified by the conjunction of conditions for SPO status.
One may apply the same metaphor to describe the set of requirements for WPO status as being `` weaker '' than the set of requirements for SPO status.
Therefore, the requirements for WPO status are not merely weaker on balance or weaker according to the odds ; rather, one may describe them more specifically and quite fittingly as `` Pareto-weaker. '' -RRB-.
The city 's cathedrals are another main attraction : Its Notre Dame de Paris and the Basilique du Sacré-Coeur receive 12 million and eight million visitors, respectively.
Disneyland Resort Paris is a major tourist attraction not only for visitors to Paris but for visitors to the rest of Europe as well, with 14.5 million visitors in 2007.
ParisTech offers a complete range of courses, independently or in partnership with other institutions -LRB- in particular doctoral and Master 's degrees -RRB-, in the core disciplines of science and technology at postgraduate level.
Because of the competitive exams, the prestigious colleges and institutes of ParisTech attract the best students, who then often reach the highest positions in their later careers.
Master of Science -LRB- MSc -RRB- programmes, courses designed to provide an in-depth understanding in various fields of science ranging from Mathematics to Economics.
In April 2008, a re-worked version was performed at Laycock St. Theatre with new orchestrations and several new songs by Central Coast musician Andrew Swan and a re-vamped script edited by director Stuart Smith.
School groups have also performed the musical including St Andrew 's Cathedral School Sydney, renowned for their professional standard productions.
According to English, the concept for the musical began in a 1982 prank : he wrote a song called `` Oh, Paris '', about the mythic hero rather than the French capital, just to see how many people actually listened to the words.
` Paris' is about the struggle to maintain some balance between passion and order, law and chaos, head and heart.
In a 2001 article in ` Esprit', Paul Thibaud discussed the controversy between Jean-Luc Einaudi, who spoke of 200 killed on 17 October, and 325 killed by the police during the autumn of 1961, and Jean-Paul Brunet, who gave an estimate of only 50 -LRB- and 160 dead, possible homicide victims, who passed through the IML medico-legal institute during the four months between September and December 1961 -RRB-.
Basing himself on others sources, Thibaud pointed out that an administrative dissimulation of the dead had taken place, and that the IML could not be consulted as sole source -LRB- as did Brunet -RRB-.
Thibaud concluded that Einaudi 's work made it possible to give an estimate of 300 Algerian victims of murder -LRB- whether by police or others -RRB- between 1 September and 31 December 1961.
The opera, in four acts, lasted 3 hours and 40 minutes, which was far too long for the Italian public and critics.
After mentioning the numerous qualities in the work he wrote : `` Inordinate length : if this flaw is not set to rights, it could only weigh down on Parisina 's sound.
Independent of any judgement on the intrinsic value of the new opera, the Maestro 's most fanatic advocate must express one hope : cut, cut, cut ! ''.
The term park is also used in reference to industrial areas, often termed industrial parks.
Small environmental areas, often part of urban renewal plans, are called pocket parks.
The word park may also be used in community names, such as Oak Park or College Park.
Sometimes the active recreational aspect may be expressed in the extreme of naming an amusement park, usually privately owned.
From Cooper Square at 8th Street to Union Square at 14th Street, it is known as ` Fourth Avenue'.
Above 14th Street, it turns slightly east of north to align with other avenues of the Commissioners' Plan of 1811.
From 14th Street to 17th Street, it forms the eastern boundary of Union Square and is known as ` Union Square East' ; its southbound lanes merge with Broadway for this distance.
From 17th Street to 32nd Street, it is known as ` Park Avenue South', and above 32nd Street, for the remainder of its distance, it is known as ` Park Avenue'.
However, fine, less vigorous grasses are also common such as Sheep 's Fescue -LRB- ` Festuca ovina' -RRB-.
The reserve supports a rich flora including many calcicoles such as Common Milkwort -LRB- ` Polygala vulgaris' -RRB-, Small Scabious -LRB- ` Scabiosa columbaria' -RRB- and Marjoram -LRB- ` Origanum vulgare' -RRB-.
The orchid was introduced to the site during the twentieth century from another Kentish site and has since flourished with over 100 plants.
The ` covered bridges of Parke County' are well-known tourist attractions in Parke County, Indiana, United States, which touts itself as the `` Covered Bridge Capital of the World ''.
The county has more covered bridges than any other county in the United States.'.
Daniels and Britton built numerous bridges, 158 in Indiana between them.
Under a common ` house rule', a player who lands on this space wins a jackpot consisting of a collection of fines and taxes that have been placed in the center of the board -LRB- rather than having been paid to the Banker, as they would under the official rules -RRB-.
Mr. Palame spent the summer of 1942 living in his automobile and parking in various Manhattan neighborhoods.
The school 's entire landscape was replaced in 2004 with a junior college feel, adding numerous trees and bushes, as well as benches for students to use.
Began as an end of year showcase by art teacher Katherine Gelinas, Parkland now has an art gallery which displays numerous works of art produced by Parkland students.
Art students at Parkland have won various awards for their works of art.
The development was completed in the 1950s and was a first home to many military families returning from the Second World War and the Korean War.
Metropolitan Life has built similar apartment blocks in other large cities, including Park La Brea in Los Angeles, Parkfairfax in Viginia, Parkchester in New York and Peter Cooper Village/Stuyvesant Town in Manhattan to name a few.
Parkmerced 's unusual pie-shaped blocks were designed by its architect, Leonard Schultze, and shares many features with his Park La Brea design.
Schultze worked closely with landscape architect Thomas Dolliver Church, who often collaborated with cutting-edge, Modern architects, to refine the plan for Parkmerced.
A major project was undertaken to refurbish the Park back to its original splendour.
The park itself has many walkways through mature tree-lined avenues as well as affording some magnificent views of the Parish Church.
The park is well lit and has a number of CCTV cameras installed to deter antisocial behaviour.
It features the Second Empire architectural style that was popular for prestigious buildings both in Europe -LRB- especially France where the style originated -RRB- and the United States during the Victorian era.
Although somewhat more sober in appearance and lacking a towering central belfry, Quebec City 's Parliament Building bears a definite likeness to the Philadelphia City Hall, another Second Empire landmark in North America which was built during the same period.
Its facade presents a pantheon representing significant events and people in the history of Quebec.
When weak monarchs governed, parliament often became the centre of opposition against them.
However, when the king was merely seeking advice, he often only summoned the nobility and the clergy, sometimes with and sometimes without the knights of the shires.
Any group of 10 members may raise the question of the legality of the minister 's official acts.
The criminal investigation of the Constitutional Committee may also be initiated by the Chancellor of Justice, Parliamentary Ombudsman or by any parliamentary committee.
Similar proceedings may also be initiated against the Chancellor of Justice, Parliamentary Ombudsman or the judges of the supreme courts.
The President of Finland may be also the target of a criminal investigation of the Constitutional Committee, but the parliament must accept the indictment by a majority of three-fourths and the charge must be treason, high treason or a crime against humanity.
After 1424, Parliament was often willing to defy the King -- it was far from being simply a ` rubber stamp' of royal decisions.
During the fifteenth century, Parliament was called far more often than, for instance, the English Parliament -- on average over once a year -- a fact that both reflected and augmented its influence.
James IV -LRB- 1488-1513 -RRB- realised that Parliament could often create more problems than it solved, and avoided meetings after 1509.
The party which forms the majority of seats will have its leader as the Prime Minister, who will then select members of Parliament to form the Cabinet.
In the last general election in 2006, the incumbent People 's Action Party -LRB- PAP -RRB- won 82 of the 84 seats, with the same configuration as the previous election in 2001, but with a loss of 9 % of the popular vote.
The constitution also provides for the appointment of other members of parliament not voted in at an election.
Conservative critics of Ahmadinejad won a substantial bloc in the legislature, highlighting the growing discontent with the president 's fiery style and failure to repair the ailing economy of Iran.
The United States and Europe called the vote unfair after most reformists were barred from running .82 seats in which no candidate gained more than 25 % of the vote in the first round held another round of voting on 25 April 2008 ; 11 of those seats were in Tehran.
Of the 164 candidates, 69 are considered to be Conservative, 41 Reformists and 54 as Independents.
Under parliamentary sovereignty, a legislative body has absolute sovereignty, meaning it is supreme to all other government institutions -LRB- including any executive or judicial bodies as they may exist -RRB-.
Furthermore, it implies that the legislative body may change or repeal any prior legislative acts.
Parliamentary sovereignty contrasts with notions of judicial review, where a court may overturn legislation deemed unconstitutional.
Ultimately, investigator Dick DiCicco wrote in his official report that there `` was no evidence presented to '' substantiate `` the allegation that officers were taking turns calling in sick in order that other officers could earn overtime to maintain minimums, '' `` there was no actual duplicate billing '' concerning Sgt. Joe Kuchler and Ptl. John Robertson as indicated in ` The Plain Dealer' articles, and based `` on the review of the above activity no specific pattern of reciprocity was detected '' on the part of Officer Mekruit.
In turn, on March 11, 2005, The ` Plain Dealer' quoted Councilwoman Stys who summed up the investigation as a `` sham, '' and on January 12, 2006, prosecutor Dan Kasaris recommended that the case of The State of Ohio vs. Donald Mcnea, a retired Parma police officer who served as a focus of numerous newspaper articles, be dismissed.
Further revelations about the `` Witch Hunt '', as found in such newspaper articles as `` Report clears Parma police in payroll-padding probe, '' and including the retroactive appointment of a special prosecutor who had been prosecuting -LRB- in violation of the Ohio Revised Code -RRB- select police union representatives who had raised concerns about possible political corruption, has led to calls for the resignations of many members of the current mayoral administration and city council.
As confirmed on the county website, most recently, on February 26, 2007, Judge Brian J. Corrigan found Patrolman Brian Barta not guilty of bribery., URL accessed on April 10, 2007 Officer Barta was earlier discharged of charges of obstructing justice,, URL accessed on April 10, 2007 with the judge citing the fact that the prosecution 's witness `` skipped court appearances '' and was `` twice arrested and convicted, for drug trafficking and possession. ''.
Employing his customary method of attack, the reductio ad absurdum, Zeno has argued that if as the pluralists say things are many, then they will be both like and unlike ; but this is an impossible situation, for unlike things can not be like, nor like things unlike.
But this difficulty vanishes, says Socrates, if we are prepared to make the distinction between sensibles on the one hand and Forms, in which sensibles participate, on the other.
Thus one and the same thing can be both like and unlike, or one and many, by participating in the Forms of Likeness and Unlikeness, of Unity and Plurality ; I am one man, and as such partake of the Form of Unity, but I also have many parts and in this respect I partake of the Form of Plurality.
There is no problem in demonstrating that sensible things may have opposite attributes ; what would cause consternation, and earn the admiration of Socrates, would be if someone were to show that the Forms themselves were capable of admitting contrary predicates.
For instance, according to Arrian 's ` Anabasis', at the Granicus Parmenion suggested delay before the attack, as the army had already marched all day as well as for other political and geographical issues.
This brought the Persian cavalry onto the field first against the Greeks the next morning, setting up a defeat in detail, as is reported in the accounts from that time.
Several religions that are classified as parody religions have a number of relatively serious followers who embrace the perceived absurdity of these religions as spiritually significant, a decidedly post-modern approach to religion.
This joke, in turn, may be part of a greater path to enlightenment, and so on ` ad infinitum'.
If it contains some, but not all, of the terms as to which the parties have agreed then it is a partial integration.
This means that the writing was a final agreement between the parties -LRB- and not mere preliminary negotiations -RRB- as to some terms, but not as to others.
On the other hand, if the writing were to contain all of the terms as to which the parties agreed, then it would be a complete integration.
A variant of parole is known as `` time off for good behavior, '' or, colloquially, `` good time. ''.
Unlike the traditional form of parole which may be granted or denied at the discretion of a parole board time off for good behavior is automatic absent a certain number -LRB- or gravity -RRB- of infractions committed by a convict while incarcerated -LRB- in most jurisdictions the released inmate is placed under the supervision of a parole officer for a certain amount of time after being so released -RRB-.
In some cases `` good time '' can reduce the maximum sentence by as much as one-third.
It is usually not made available to inmates serving life sentences, as there is no release date that can be moved up.
The duration of attacks averages 3-7 days but may last 2-3 weeks in some individuals.
The spectrum varies from mild and infrequent attacks to episodes so frequent that they prevent regular school attendance.Local heat applied to the gland, massaging the gland from back to front, and taking penicillin usually cure individual episodes.
Treatment of individual infections may prevent injury to the gland parenchyma.
Severe disease may be treated by parotidectomy.
In the Carnivals there are also floats, but instead of two representing districts there are as many as possible for the hosting city because the mayor even here is the float display and it takes hours and kilometers of city for all of them to finish the run.
There are as many rumbas as floats because in Carnivals they become a duo, and the rumba announces the float.
Rumba performers do n't expect the people in town to join them since streets are close in the first place.
Also, almost everyone that has learned a language has learned it at a young age.
` Parsley' -LRB- ` Petroselinum crispum' -RRB- is a bright green biennial herb, often used as spice.
It is common in Middle Eastern, European, and American cooking.
Curly leaf parsley is often used as a garnish.
Creating a moral tale to emphasize a character trait was a commonly used literary device in 18th century biographies.
Beginning with his earliest recordings, critics have been generous with their praise.
`` One of the ten best records ever made in North Carolina '' bellowed the Greensboro Record.
Online critic Margot Carmichael Lester gushed about Huxley 's 2001 album, `` Purgatory Falls is potentially the most honest, moving and complete collection of love songs ever put on one record. ''.
Huxley has been dubbed a `` pop visionary '', `` rock 's most underrated pop genius '', a songwriting `` master '' as well as the guy with the `` monumental name. ''.
Pro-choice groups object to this statute primarily because there is no exemption if the ` health' of a woman is at risk. '' ''.
The Soviet Red Army mounted a successful counter-offensive during the winter, and gained the initiative with a series of major victories in 1943, culminating in the ultimate advance of Soviet forces into Eastern Europe and Germany in 1945, concluded with the Battle of Berlin.
The Soviet Union suffered greater losses, both among civilians and military forces, than any of the other participants in the war.
However, the RKKA took out almost two times more axis soldiers than all other allies together.
After the war, the Soviet sphere of influence was widened to cover most of Eastern Europe, formalized in the Warsaw Pact, to counter the western Allies and NATO.
-LRB- 2 -RRB- Too many meetings : Parecon would seem to require many meetings, perhaps to a debilitating degree.
Further, concerning meetings for participatory planning, the planning process would last a few weeks, with time off work to participate.
There is no fixed way in which PV has to be done, other than that it involves the authorship of the group itself and that it be carried out in a truly participative and democratic way.
Laser Doppler Velocimetry was predates PIV as a laser-digital analysis system to become widespread for research and industrial use.
At these particle densities it was further noticed that it was easier to study the flows if they were split into many small ` interrogation' areas, that could be analyzed individually to generate one velocity for each area.
The images were usually recorded using analog cameras and needed immense amount of computing power to be analyzed.
All the particles and their interactions observed to date can almost be described entirely by a quantum field theory called the Standard Model.
The Standard Model has 17 species of elementary particles -LRB- 12 fermions -LRB- 24 if you count antiparticles separately -RRB-, 4 vector bosons -LRB- 5 if you count antiparticles separately -RRB-, and 1 scalar bosons -RRB-, which can combine to form composite particles, accounting for the hundreds of other species of particles discovered since the 1960s.
Today in Ireland many sports, such as boxing, rugby union, Gaelic football, hurling and Rugby union, are organised in an all-island basis, with a single team representing Ireland in international competitions.
Selection usually depends on whether his or her sport is organised on an all-Ireland, a Northern Ireland, or a UK basis.
The expert concluded that the needle supposed to have been recording the altitude had been shaking so much that it left another mark on the foil.
This told investigators that another component of the aircraft had been vibrating.
Investigators found that during the two week period in July 1989 the aircraft received a major overhaul in Canada by the airline 's previous owner.
When the Canadian company made test flights and during the aircraft 's first several passenger flights for Partnair, the FDR recorded almost no abnormal vibrations.
Trap room : A large open space under the stage of many large theatres.
The trap room allows the stage floor to be leveled, extra electrical equipment to be attached, and most importantly, the placement of trap doors onto the stage -LRB- hence the name -RRB-.
It is usually unfinished and often doubles as a storage area.
It is often also used as a substitute for a crossover.
Unlike the Workers World Party, which never maintained a formal position in the A.N.S.W.E.R. Coalition despite its clear influence -LRB- the International Action Center, an organization which is regarded to have ties with the WWP, was the organization that ANSWER had formally suspended from the coalition -RRB-, the PSL 's role within A.N.S.W.E.R. is overt.
PSL has gained notice for successfully forging ties with Arab and Muslim American groups such as the Muslim American Society, Al-Awda and the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee.
This cooperation with these groups has been characterized by conservatives as dangerous collaboration with `` Islamists ''. Ben Johnson, '', ` FrontPageMag.com', 14 July 2005 -LRB- accessed 4 June 2007 -RRB-.
In the joint session, individuals are situated so they sit face to face in order to address each other directly, rather than through the mediator.
To enhance this delegation of responsibility, clients sit facing directly across a table from each other, while the mediator sits at a distance from both.
This assures that both parties must address each other, directly.
Parties often must be reminded that the mediator is there to help the parties take responsibility for managing their own conflict, rather than to judge between the merits of the position of one party or the other.
She and Sadashiv Rao Bhau Peshwa had an issue which no one knows was a boy or a girl, however, the ward died when it was an infant -LRB- this is totally contradictory to what is said in the above paragraph, are there any references to confirm either one of the two statements ? -RRB-.
In those days it was not at all possible that a brahmin who is in the center of power will marry a girl who is from other caste.
Other albums by Yahaghi currently in print include '' ` Toreh' '' in two volumes -LRB- i.e. two compact discs -RRB- ; '' ` Tooba' '' -LRB- a.k.a. ` Tobi' -RRB- in two volumes ; '' ` Taravat' '' in two volumes ; the three-volume set headlined '' ` Iranian Classical Music' '' whose three volumes are called ` Ashk & Tulu', ` Yad', and ` Faryad' ; and other albums by Yahaghi in print include '' ` Kimia' '', '' ` Saz-e Del' '', '' ` Mehr' '', '' ` Mahtab' '', and '' ` Raaz & Niyaz' ''.
See :. These albums do n't contain any overlap in recorded material with themselves or with the ` Violin Melodies' collection, although at times one hears some recurring themes being reworked and replayed.
-LRB- The many early recordings of Yahaghi playing with a singer are published under the singer 's name -RRB-.
For the noble classes the line between reality and fiction blurred, the deeds they read about were real, while their deeds in reality were often deadly, if not comical, re-enactments of those they read about.
This romanticised `` Chivalric Revival '' manifested itself in a number of ways, including the pas d'armes, round table and 'em prise' -LRB- or 'em presa', enterprise, chivalrous adventure -RRB-, and in increasingly elaborated rules of courtesy and heraldry.
Tongva dwellings lined the Arroyo Seco -LRB- Los Angeles County -RRB- in Pasadena and south to where it joins the Los Angeles River and along other natural waterways in the city.
For food, they lived on a diet of acorn meal, seeds and herbs, venison, and other small animals.
When the Spanish occupied the Los Angeles Basin they built the San Gabriel Mission and renamed the local Tongva people `` Gabrielino Indians, '' after the name of the mission.
It brings together a collection of stalls that usually sell goods such as fruit, vegetables, snacks, toys, clothes, shoes, alarm clocks, and ornaments at cheap or at least reasonable prices.
Pirated DVDs, CDs and computer programs are often sold at a pasar malam.
A pasar malam often takes place only one to a few days of the week, as the traders rotate around different neighbourhoods on different days of the week.
Haggling over prices is a common practice at such markets.
Meteorologists worldwide have for a long time measured atmospheric pressure in millibars.
Therefore, meteorologists use hectopascals -LRB- hPa -RRB- today for air pressure, which are equivalent to millibars, while similar pressures are given in kilopascals in practically all other fields, where the hecto prefix is hardly ever used.
On departing, the outgoing editor in chief identified Eze as someone who would never compromise his principles, noting `` I have worked with him over the years and I am very much optimistic that he will move the Observer from better to best. ''.
Three days later, Eze tendered his resignation as editor in chief along with ten other member of the editorial staff.
In response to the mass resignation being considered `` a major blow, '' Eze noted the he and the others resigned `` because our credibility was at stake and, by so doing we want the world to know that we can not compromise on the ethics of our profession. ''.
We demand nothing less as we concertedly condemn this most uncalled for interference.
Once a major connecting point with Tampa, I-75 has been made obsolete for western residents of the county by the Suncoast Parkway. \ n23px Suncoast Parkway enters the county in the south halfway between Gunn Highway and US 41, and ends in the far northern part of the county at County Line Road -LRB- Exit 37 -RRB-, The Suncoast Parkway is a recently-constructed toll road that connects Pasco County with Hillsborough County, where it becomes the Veterans Expressway and heads directly into Tampa International Airport before reaching Interstate 275.
SR 589 has four Pasco County exits : SR 54 -LRB- Exit 19 -RRB-, Ridge Road Extension -LRB- Future Exit 24 -RRB-, SR 52 -LRB- Exit 27 -RRB-, and County Line Road -LRB- Exit 37 -RRB-. \ n U.S. Route 19 is a major commercial center running beside to the Gulf of Mexico on the western edge of the county, and used as a primary connecting route to cities down the west coast of Florida, including Tarpon Springs, Dunedin, Clearwater, and St. Petersburg, as well as Spring Hill, Weeki Wachee, Homosassa and Crystal River to the north. \ n Alternate 19 is a former section of US 19 that runs closer to the Gulf of Mexico in Pinellas and southern Pasco County than US 19. \ n U.S. Route 41 -LRB- Land O' Lakes Bouelvard -RRB- \ n U.S. Route 98 runs northwest and southeast from Hernando County to Polk County.
Concurrent with US 301 between Trilacoochee and Clinton Heights. \ n U.S. Route 301 -LRB- Fort King Highway/Gall Boulevard -RRB- \ n State Road 39 runs northwest and southeast from Plant City into US 301 in Zephyrhills \ n20px County Road 41 -LRB- Fort King Highway/17th Street/21st Street/Blanton Road -RRB- \ n20px County Line Road -LRB- CR 578 -RRB- is a major county road running entirely along the border with Hernando County beginning at US 19, intersects the Suncoast Parkway, and ends at US 41.
However, most of the population influx resided in Richland and Kennewick, as Pasco remained primarily driven by the agricultural industry, and to a less degree, the NP Pasco rail yards.
After the end of World War II, the entire region went through several `` boom '' and `` bust '' periods, cycling approximately every 10 years and heavily based on available government funding for Hanford-related work.
Farming continued to be the economic base for most of the city.
According to 2006 Census Data, 13,558 people currently reside in Pascoe Vale.
This slightly more than the recorded number of residents in the 2001 Census Data, where 13,210 people were recorded as living in Pascoe Vale.
The suburb has historically been less culturally diverse compared to other suburbs in Moreland.
A lower proportion of Pascoe Vale people were born overseas and Pascoe Vale has the highest proportion of Australian born citizens. 61 % of people living in Pascoe Vale speak English at home, which is lower than the metropolitan average but higher than the average in Moreland.
He began writing lyrics for his own guitar improvisations while still in his teens, and he moved to nearby Montevideo, Uruguay, a few years later.
Matos Rodríguez went on to write what became perhaps the best-known tango composition, ` La Cumparsita' - though his original lyrics were replaced by Contursi 's in a version known around 1924 as ` Si Supieras' -LRB- ` If You Knew' -RRB-.
Matos Rodríguez succeeded in popularizing ` La Cumparsita' as the song 's title, though Contursi 's lyrics became the only popularly-recognized version following tango standard Carlos Gardel 's highly recognizable rendition.
He was signed by Neftalí Cruz for the Pirates organization in 1976 and reached the major league club in 1980.
Traded to the Braves on June 30, 1982, he enjoyed his two best seasons while with that organization, going 15-8 and 14-8 in 1983 and 1984 respectively.
Except some remote areas of NWFP, PTV, Peshawar has viewers from almost the whole NWFP.
PTV National viewers are comparatively more as its transmissions are not confined to NWFP, but are watched in whole of the country and in other countries as well.
AVT Khyber is watched in Pakistan and 66 other countries around the world.
On June 13, 1948, Shah Wali Khan, the Afghan envoy to Pakistan, at a party in his honor by the Aligarh Old Boys' Association, declared : `` Our King has already stated, and I, as the representative of Afghanistan, declare that Afghanistan has no claims on frontier territory, and even if there were any, they have been given up in favor of Pakistan.
Anything contrary to this which may have appeared in the Press in the past or may appear in the future should not be given credence at all and should be considered just a canard. ''.
Another Colombian breed performs what is known as ` trote y galope.'.
The trote y galope horses perform an exaggerated diagonal two beat trot and a very collected canter but they do share some common heritage with the Paso Fino.
Not as well-known as Paso Fino, these variants are just beginning to be recognized in the United States..
-LRB- where he may have studied Buxtehude 's ostinato works -RRB-.
During the first twenty days of August 1836 over twenty thousand people crossed the ferry.
In the 19th century, Passage West became a popular bathing resort for the citizens of Cork and the houses at Glenbrook and Toureen were in great demand during the Summer.
Fr. T.R. England, P.P. records in the Parish Register that Passage and more particularly Monkstown had many visitors during the summer season.
The other Baths was situated almost directly opposite the Victoria baths and was run in conjunction with St. Ann 's Hydro, a large hydropathic facility near Blarney.
While the above list is the minimum requirement, there is a considerable amount of other information required by both the airlines and the travel agent to ensure efficient travel.These include : \ nFare details, and any restrictions that may apply to the ticket.
The form of payment used, as this will usually restrict any refund if the ticket is not used.
`` Special Service Requests '' -LRB- SSR -RRB- such as special meal requirements, seating preferences, wheelchairs, and other similar requests.
The April 27, 1948 episode of the ` Fibber McGee and Molly' radio program is titled `` The Passenger Pigeon Trap '', in which McGee claims to have seen a passenger pigeon -LRB- he insists that the bird is `` stinct '' -RRB- and plans to trap it in order to sell it to the highest bidder.
A one-shot episode of ` The Bloodhound Gang', entitled `` The Case of the Dead Man 's Pigeon '', had the deceased Mr. Fowler allegedly cutting off his living relative and leaving his fortune to a society dedicated to preserving the American Passenger Pigeon, according to a revised will of his.
Stephen King makes a number of references to the passenger pigeon in the 2005 novel ` Cell'.
Although this was published in 1823, Natty Bumppo expresses outrage at people 's `` wastey ways '' and concern about the possible future extinction of the bird.
It contains several cell comepartments with minimal interior and commodities, and a separate guard compartment.
Usually the windows are of nontransparent opaque glass to prevent prisoners from seeing outside and determine where they are, and windows usually also have bars to prevent escapes.
Unlike other passenger cars, prisoner cars do not have doors at the ends of the wagon.
It is important to note that the current world record for rail vehicles is held by the TGV V150 set on 15 April 2007 at 574.8 km/h, and conventional trains may indeed eventually reach into very high-speeds.
Based on current and foreseeable technology, these speeds will more than likely be reached predominantly by maglev trains.
The two most prominent maglev trains are the Transrapid with a maximum speed of 550 km/h ; and the JR-Maglev MLX01, which holds the world land speed record for railed vehicles at 581 km/h.
The orange two-level cars are hard-seat cars of a day train from Hankou -RSB- -RSB- There are seven types of tickets that may be purchased \ nFirst Class Seat, used for CRH series EMU trains.
These tickets are usually reserved more than a week prior to departure.
Following the 1973 oil crisis ; however, smaller vehicles, often imported from Japan, became more and more popular with the American public as these vehicles featured better fuel economy ratings.
In the late 1970s, the US government passed minimum fuel economy standards and in the 1980s American automobile manufacturers drastically downsized their cars, only a few vehicles, such as those using the Ford Panther platform retained their over-sized glory.
The downsizing did, however, backfire in some cases.
After downsizing nearly the entire Cadillac line-up in the late 1980s, General Motors scrambled to save its most prestigious marques.
Conversely, almost all transsexuals will attempt to live and work as their preferred gender and be fully accepted as that gender rather than their natal sex.
The majority who have undergone sexual reassignment surgery or who are past the transition stage do not usually refer to themselves as passing, since they now consider themselves to actually be that gender.
Those who are completely accepted after transition often choose not to disclose their natal sex and instead live in ` stealth'.
The first is the usual where each hand throws with equal time between each other.
The third is synchronous, when both hands throw at the same time.A collision is when two or more clubs hit each other in the air.
The ` hammer lane' is another term for the passing lane.
Truckers often use the hammer lane in moderate traffic, where it is legal to do so, since they travel long distances.
The texts explore the Passion narrative, as traditionally presented, from the point where Christ enters the Garden of Gethsemane to his death and burial.
By the end of the century they had become so popular in Iceland that five editions had been published.
Despite this, sung Passion performances were common in Lutheran churches right from the start, in both Latin and German, beginning as early as Laetare Sunday -LRB- three weeks before Easter -RRB- and continuing through Holy Week.
In the seventeenth century came the development of `` oratorio '' passions which led to J.S. Bach 's passions, accompanied by instruments, with interpolated texts -LRB- then called `` madrigal '' movements -RRB- such as sinfonias, other Scripture passages, Latin motets, chorale arias, and more.
Fire tests in the UK are reported in the form of test results, but contrary to North America and Germany, building authorities do not require written proof that the materials that have been installed on site are actually identical to the materials and products that were used in the test.
The test report is also often interpreted by engineers, as the test results are not communicated in the form of uniformly structured listings.
In the UK, and other countries which do not require certification, the proof that the manufacturer has not substituted other materials apart from those used in the original testing is based on trust in the ethics or the culpability of the manufacturer.
The sensor is often manufactured as part of an integrated circuit and may consist of one -LRB- 1 -RRB-, two -LRB- 2 -RRB- or four -LRB- 4 -RRB- ` pixels' of equal areas of the pyroelectric material.
Pairs of the sensor pixels may be wired as opposite inputs to a differential amplifier.
In such a configuration, the PIR measurements cancel each other so that the average temperature of the field of view is removed from the electrical signal ; an increase of IR energy across the entire sensor is self-cancelling and will not trigger the device.
At the same time, this differential arrangement minimizes common-mode interference, allowing the device to resist triggering due to nearby electric fields.
The positions of major tobacco companies on the issue of passive smoking is somewhat varied.
In mathemathical models, skylights cost far more money year-round than the value of the electricity they save for electric lights in the daytime.
The ` afikoman', which is hidden away for the `` dessert '' after the meal, is another device used to encourage children 's participation.
The words or components of a passphrase need not all be, but often are, found in a language dictionary -- most particularly one available -LRB- on or off line -RRB- as input to a dictionary attack program.
If findable in such a dictionary -LRB- and especially if the entire phrase can be found in a quotation or phrase compilation -RRB-, an attacker has some chance of discovering the pass phrase by an automated dictionary attack.
How many depends on the size vocabulary from which they are chosen ` and' if those words are selected randomly.
A good rule of thumb is to purposely misspell at least one or preferably a few words in the passphrase, mix words up from different languages, and/or add symbols to the words.
A common password length recommendation is eight or more randomly chosen characters combining letters, numbers, and special characters -LRB- punctuation, etc -RRB-.
For better security, LAN Manager password storage should be disabled if it will not break supported legacy systems.Systems which limit passwords to numeric characters only, or upper case only, or, generally, which exclude possible password character choices also make brute force attacks easier.
Using longer passwords in these cases -LRB- if possible -RRB- can compensate for the limited allowable character set.
Unlike other Indo-European languages, in Slavic languages tense is independent of aspect, with imperfective and perfective aspects being indicated instead by means of prefixes, stem changes, or suppletion.
In Polish this auxiliary has evolved into a clitic which may attach to the main verb or alternatively to other parts of the sentence such as pronouns or conjunctions.
Languages using either an auxiliary verb or clitic often drop the pronoun as it is not necessary to indicate person.
Particular varieties of pasta may also use other grains and milling methods to make the flour, as specified by law.
Fresh pasta may include eggs -LRB- ` pasta all ` uovo', roughly translated as ` egg pasta' -RRB-.
Gnocchi are often listed among pasta dishes, although they are quite different in ingredients, mainly milled potatoes.
They are usually glass tubes tapered to a narrow point, and fitted with a rubber bulb at the top.
Pasteur pipettes come in various lengths and are sold in boxes of hundreds.
They are named after the doctor Louis Pasteur, who was known to have used a variant of them extensively during his research.
It can reach a maximum length of approximately 11 cm. The body colour is bright green.
The tail may be bright blue.
On the back there often are a number of small red-brick coloured dots.
Typical is the turquoise blue patch in the neck region, which may be segmented by a small red dorsal stripe.
Pastis is normally diluted with water before drinking, generally five volumes of water for one volume of pastis, but often raw pastis is served together with a jug of water for the drinker to blend together according to preference.
The story goes that, covered in dirt from head to foot -LRB- including some arsenic often found with tin -RRB-, they could hold the pasty by the folded crust and eat the rest without touching it, discarding the dirty pastry.
Pasties were also popular with farmers and labourers, particularly in the North East of England, also a mining region.
In the 2000 general election Duncan lead the Yukon Liberal Party to a majority government, defeating New Democratic incumbent Piers McDonald.
The Liberals were elected in 10 ridings and received 42.7 % of the popular vote.
Early in 2002, the Liberal majority was reduced to a minority after the defection of three Liberal MLAs, Mike McLarnon, Don Roberts and Wayne Jim.
Most of the CDs published on Barraka E.F. are produced by Pat Jabbar himself and his collaborators ; he also publishes CDs he licensed from other companies, among them works by Hamid Baroudi, Maniacs vs. Sharkiat and Hypnotix.
Bill Laswell produced tracks for Aisha Kandisha 's Jarring Effects -LRB- the ur-posse from which most of Barraka 's projects and groups came -RRB-, Ahlam and Azzddine.
For this and other affirmations, listen to In Conversations with Eamon Dunphy, RTÉ Radio 1, 8 September 2007.
This led Rabbitte, Eamon Gilmore and others to earn the nickname `` The Student Princes ''.
The rhyme is often accompanied by hand-clapping between two people, a clapping game.
It alternates between a normal individual clap with two-handed claps with the other person.
The hands may be crossed as well.
This allows for a possibly complex sequence of clapping that must be coordinated between the two.
However, since the guanaco is a protected animal in both Chile and Argentina, it is unlikely to appear commonly as restaurant fare.
Trout and ` centolla' -LRB- king crab -RRB- are also common, though over-fishing of centolla has made it increasingly scarce.
Gonds -LRB- Gondi people -RRB- and Bharias mainly constitute the population of Patalkot.
Chulki, Mundri, Binoria, Toda, Hasli, Kardona, Paijan, Mohanmala, Kushmala, Mungiamala, Markadhana mala and Patli are the common ornaments they show off at this time.
Nagda, Timki, Shehnai, Chakule, Singa, Tambura, Chikara, Bansuri, Ghunghru, Khadtaal, Madar, Dhol, Dahak and Tudiya are the common instruments they play during various ceremonies and rituals.
From then on he started to play and recite poems in local parties and became more and more popular.
The singing of one bird often gives the impression there are more than one. -RRB-.
A ` patch antenna' -LRB- also known as a Rectangular Microstrip Antenna -RRB- is a popular antenna type.
The assembly is usually contained inside a plastic radome, which protects the antenna structure from damage -LRB- as well as concealing its essential simplicity -RRB-.
They are the original microstrip antenna as described by Howell `` Microstrip Antennas, '' IEEE International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation, Williamsburg Virginia, 1972 pp. 177-180, which are a length of microstrip transmission line of approximately one-half wavelength.
A patch antenna is generally constructed on a dielectric substrate, usually employing the same sort of lithographic patterning used to fabricate printed circuit boards.
The procedure for granting patents, the requirements placed on the patentee, and the extent of the exclusive rights vary widely between countries according to national laws and international agreements.
Typically, however, a patent application must include one or more claims defining the invention which must be new, inventive, and useful or industrially applicable.
In the United States, a practitioner may either be a ` patent attorney' or ` patent agent'.
Both patent agents and patent attorneys may prepare, file, and prosecute patent applications.
Patent agents and patent attorneys may also provide patentability opinions, as noted by the U.S. Supreme Court in ` Sperry v. Florida' .373 U.S. 379 -LRB- 1963 -RRB-.
However, the USPTO Rules of Ethics and Professionalism, effective as of September 15, 2008, specifically clarifies that patent agents may not provide an `` opinion of validity of another party 's patent when the client is contemplating litigation and not seeking reexamination '' because such activity `` could not be reasonably necessary and incident to the preparation and prosecution '' of a client 's patent., PatentlyO blog, August 15, 2008.
In a persistent PDA, there is an irregular transmission of blood between two of the most important arteries in close proximity to the heart.
Although the ductus arteriosus normally seals off within a few days, in PDA, the newborn 's ductus arteriosus does not close but remains patent.
PDA is common in neonates with persistent respiratory problems such as hypoxia, and has a high occurrence in premature children.
Premature children are more likely to be hypoxic and thus have PDA because of their underdeveloped heart and lungs.
It is usually not recommended to represent yourself, as an attorney or agent will know how the process goes from previous experience.
A pro-se case is usually much more difficult and can be costly if the applicant does n't respond to the office appropriately and within the time frames set forth.
Authorization is usually obtained by passing examinations set by the appropriate patent office, thereby proving that the representative is competent in the relevant laws and processes.
Trostbrücke 1, in the Altstadt district of Hamburg -LRB- accessible during office hours - no groups and guided tours -RRB-.
One of the best examples in Germany, it is 5 levels and it open to the public. \ n Mannheim operations building of SCA -LRB- only for employees -RRB- \ n Leverkusen, some Paternosters at Bayer AG 's plant. \ n In the Informatics and Mathematics faculty of Universität-Leipzig one can still be found, although the lift stays in operation only half of the day.
Cologne - In the IHK -LRB- Industrie - und Handelskammer/Chamber of Industry and Trade -RRB- Building -LRB- Unter Sachsenhausen 10-26, D-50667 Cologne, Hansahochhaus -LRB- housing Saturn, Hansaring, Maybachstraße 115, D-50674 Cologne -RRB-, WDR HQ -LRB- Wallrafplatz 1, D-50667 Cologne -LRB- only for employees -RRB- ; Kaufhof -LRB- Hohe Straße 41-53, D-50667 -RRB-, Kaufhof Corporate HQ -LRB- Leonhard-Tietz-Str., D-50667 Cologne -LRB- not open to the public -RRB- ; Volkshochschule Building -LRB- near Neumarkt, D-50667 Cologne -RRB- ; Former Felten & Guilleaume Corporate HQ -LRB- Schanzenstr. 28, D-51069 Cologne-Mülheim, accessible public office building, 5 Stories -RRB- ; former downtown Bezirksamt „ Dischhaus `` -LRB- Brückenstr., D-50667 Cologne -RRB- ; Bezirksregierung Köln -LRB- Regional Government Center Cologne -RRB-, Entrance : Zeughausstraße 8 -LRB- D-50667 Cologne -RRB- \ nBerlin - Foreign Office, Werderscher Markt 1 ; Finance Ministry, Wilhelmstrasse 97 ; Agriculture Ministry, Wilhelmstrasse 54 ; Axel Springer Building, Axel Springer Strasse 65 ; Bayer Schering Pharma, AG ; ART+COM, Kleiststrasse 23-26, 10787 Berlin ;, rbb -LRB- Radio Berlin Brandenburg -RRB- Masurenallee 8-14 ; Rathaus Schöneberg, John-F-Kennedy-Platz ; Siemens AG, Siemens Damm -LRB- in several buildings -RRB-.
There are a couple more : In the Sueddeutsche Zeitung Verlagsgebaeude, in the Hochhaus an der Blumenstrasse and some more ....
` The Times of India' wrote that `` It is absurd to compare it with any other Indian cinema -LSB- ... -RSB- ` Pather Panchali' is pure cinema ''.
Thus, only a small number of critics attended the show.
Vietnam afterward forced Laos to cut any remaining economic ties to its other neighbors.
For the next 15 years, the Pathet Lao ran the country almost as a Vietnamese colony.
A systematic program of forcefully removing and exterminating Hmong people was begun within Laos, which resulted in complaints by United Nations member countries of attempted genocide and other human rights abuses by the government of Laos.
The Lao government 's response has been to label the Hmong people and former Royal Lao Army Major General Vang Pao as `` international terrorists ''.
Network scaling represents another method based on graph theory.
Proximities can be obtained from similarities, correlations, distances, conditional probabilities, or any other measure of the relationships among entities.
For example, if the proximities are similarities, links will generally connect nodes of high similarity.
The term is often used pejoratively, as a way of dismissing such inputs as being specially designed to break a routine that is otherwise sound in practice -LRB- compare with ` Byzantine' -RRB-.
On the other hand, awareness of pathological inputs is important as they can be exploited to mount a denial-of-service attack on a computer system.
Also, the term in this sense is a matter of subjective judgment as with its other senses.
Given enough run time, a sufficiently large and diverse user community, or other factors, an input which may be dismissed as pathological could in fact occur -LRB- as seen in the first test flight of the Ariane 5 -RRB-.
Training may be within two primary specialties, as recognized by the American Board of Pathology : Anatomic Pathology, and Clinical Pathology, each of which requires separate board certification.
Pathologists may pursue specialised fellowship training within one or more sub-specialties of either anatomic or clinical pathology.
Pathé was the first company to commonly make master recordings in a different media than the final commercial product.
The various types of commercial Pathé cylinders and discs were then dubbed from these masters.
The acoustical-mechanical dubbing process, however, resulted in uneven results on the final commercial record, many having a pronounced rumble or other audio artifacts from the process.
Mr. Behr provided Mrs. Curran with an income of $ 400 a month for a number of years.
Mrs Curran then entered the lecture circuit to make some money to support her family.
Patience was kept busy at the sessions, as always, by requests for her comments on major topics of the day and other issues.
Pearl apparently had received a prior communication from Patience that she -LRB- Pearl -RRB- was going to die as Pearl told Dotsie Smith `` Oh Dotsie, Patience has just shown me the end of the road and you will have to carry on as best you can. ''.
The Patient Advocate often assists with family communication and issues arising from illness and injury.
This may include further referral for care and support for both patients and families, which includes ongoing communication and coordination with all practitioners according to each practitioner 's preferred protocol.
The Patient Advocate has a responsibility to keep a keen awareness for contiguity of care, with initial oversight for potentially conflicting treatment modalities and medications, which should be promptly discussed with Patient and Primary Care Provider and all treatments entered into the health care record, which should be provided to the patient on an annual basis or more often if the treatment is intensive, prolonged or with several health care providers.
Creation and maintenance of an electronic log for Patient and available by disc to Practitioners is highly desirable as it may be of great benefit in any urgent situation.
Drawbacks : American College of Surgeons Bulletin : #Managed care plans may attempt limit `` unnecessary '' services to cut the costs of health care, despite evidence that guidelines are not designed for general screening, rather as decision-making tools when an individual practitioner evaluates a specific patient.
#The medical literature is evolving and often controversial ; development of guidelines requires consensus.
#Implementing guidelines and educating the entire health care team within a facility costs time and resources -LRB- which may be recovered by future efficiency and error reduction -RRB-.
#Clinicians may resist evidence-based medicine as a threat to traditional relationships between patients, doctors and other health professionals, since any participant can influence decisions.
It has long catered to gay men, whilst nearby Soi Thaniya has expensive bars with Thai hostesses that cater almost exclusively to Japanese men.
The most pessimistic predict a failure : `` nothing will be as before ''.
The pioneer musical groups `` Orpheus '' and `` Patraiki' Mantolinata '' lead the effort.
In the next 9 years, patriarch and archibshop held several joint liturgies, even with the heads of other Orthodox Churches.
German and the Serbian Orthodox Church, claiming the separation was forced and uncanonical -LRB- in other words, they deemed it a church established by the Communists -RRB- ended any canonical communication with the Macedonian Orthodox Church.
In turn, German 's example was followed by all the other Orthodox Churches, as it is to this day.
No Western chroniclers note what would -LRB- if true -RRB- have been a major ecclesiastical scandal.
In April 2006, Patricia Hewitt made a speech in which she said the NHS had had `` its best year ever '', citing a decrease in waiting times for hospital treatment.
However, this claim came at a time when thousands of jobs were being cut across the country as a number of NHS trusts attempted to cope with budget deficits.
Delegates at the conference called for job cuts and bed closures, part of planned NHS reforms aimed at improving the effectiveness of the service, to be halted, predicting that the number of posts lost could reach 13,000, and said a work to rule was possible.
The Guardian | 24 April 2006 BMA chairman Mr. James Johnson claimed 2006 was actually one of the worst years on record and that `` 2006 has been full of bleak moments for the NHS - job losses, training budgets slashed, trusts delaying operations in order to save money and hospital closures announced at the same time as new PFI developments.
Besides wealthy merchant burghers, they were recruited from the ranks of imperial knights, administrators and ministeriales ; the latter two groups were accepted even when they were not freemen.
Instead, they would point to their belonging to certain families or `` houses '', as documented for Cologne, Frankfurt am Main and Nuremberg, among other cities.
The use of the word ` Patrizier' to refer to the most privileged segment of urban society dates back not to the Middle Ages but to the Renaissance.
However, this usage did not become common until the 17th and 18th centuries.
In the first edition of The Bloody Horse, Cullinan wrote : ` To talk of ` literature', of good writing, of art may be obscene or almost obscene in a society as self-destructing, engrossed in conflict as this one is.
But the important word is almost.
For however cluttered by violence and potential annihilation a society may find itself, it is the writers and the artists who portray the reality of this process ....
This may be as good an encapsulation as any of the position of Cullinan 's poetry in its political context.
Patrick Gordon Walker died in London, aged 73.
There was another schism in 1989 when Harrington and Graham Williamson parted company with Griffin and Holland.
The ONF had opened dialogue with groups like the Nation of Islam and the ` Pan-Afrikan International Movement'.
In late 1989 Harrington voted for the disbandment of the Official National Front and joined with others to form the Third Way -LRB- UK -RRB- in 1990.
He was one of three holders of the office of President who did not face popular election for the office, the others being Douglas Hyde and Cearbhall Ó Dálaigh.
Hillery left office in 1990 -LRB- he had served the maximum two terms -RRB-, widely applauded for his integrity, honesty and devotion to duty.
The previous image of Hillery, as low key, dull and unexciting -LRB- except for the bizarre `` sex rumours '' -RRB-, had been somewhat undermined.
However he re-entered public life in 2002 during the second referendum on the Nice Treaty, when, along with most of the political elite, he urged a ` yes' vote.
McCrory has been active in the areas of public safety, economic development, housing and transportation.
He has also been a proponent of public transportation.
He has been nationally recognized for his support in developing Charlotte 's 25-year transportation and land-use plan.
He has worked with both the Democratic majority on the city council and the Republicans at times.
Recently he had a major disagreement with the Democrats on the council over a 9 % property tax increase.
He vetoed the tax increase by the Democrats only to have it overridden by the overwhelmingly Democratic majority.
Teaching him obedience and discipline, he learned at a young age to be honest and to respect and accept other people.
Later on in his life he left the Mormon church which his father had done many years before him.
He spend most of his childhood in the south of Sweden.
In the next few years he earned a degree in business and economics.When he was 23 he started his first company with his best friend, Carl-Fredrik Fondell.
Neighly has undertaken limited work for hire, generally restricted to editing and ghost writing for publishers such as Disinformation and manga giant Tokyopop.
Neighly briefly contributed a number of columns on the small press comics space to prominent portal Newsarama.
As a journalist and editor he has contributed to a number of print magazines, including Asian Century, America 's Network, Bandwidth, CFQ, CommsDayGlobal, The Euronet and 3G Americas.
When the trio split in 1991, Huntington worked with boogie-woogie groups.
He worked with blues groups before returning to jazz in 2006.
He is now a sideman playing with Wynton Marsalis, Harry Connick Jr., Branford Marsalis, Ellis Marsalis, and many others.
Category :1958 birthsCategory : American jazz double-bassistsCategory : Living people.
Prior to joining Babyshambles, Walden belonged to a variety of London groups, among which were Fluid, the Six Cold Thousand, and The White Sport.
He played guitar for The White Sport alongside another future Babyshambles member, drummer Adam Ficek.
He has been featured in ` JAZZIZ', ` Smooth & Soul', ` Smooth Jazz News' and his music has been aired worldwide.
His '' ` Eyes of Mars' '' 2005 release was number 6 for the year on JazLynx and was featured in ` Jazz Times' as one of the top releases of the season along with other artists such as Herbie Hancock, Euge Groove, Bob James and other top names in jazz & smooth jazz.
Patrick 's blues/rock release `` New York Blues '' was featured worldwide !.
Music available on iTunes, Amazon.com, CDBaby, Target.com and many more !.
The college itself has claimed that it simply does not `` choose '' to be accredited by standard associations.
The university offers a monthly fee, unlike most universities, which only charge per-credit fees.
To the credit of Hugh and `` Waldo '', the PGR website had received almost 566,000 hits in the first two weeks.
Emails were pouring in from people wanting to support and join the newly formed PGR.
Seagoing patrol boats are typically around 30m -LRB- 100 ft -RRB- in length and usually carry a single medium caliber artillery gun as main armament, and a variety of lighter secondary armament such as machine guns or a close-in weapon system.
Depending on role, vessels in this class may also have more sophisticated sensors and fire control systems that would enable them to carry torpedoes, anti-ship and surface-to-air missiles.
Most modern designs are powered by gas turbine arrangements such as CODAG, and speeds are generally in the 25 -- 30 knot range.
Common tasks are fisheries inspection, anti-smuggling -LRB- usually anti-narcotics -RRB- duties, illegal immigration patrols, anti-piracy patrols and search and rescue -LRB- law enforcement-type of work -RRB-.
The ` Patroon Island Bridge' is a major crossing of the Hudson River in Albany, New York.
It has been in service since 1968 ; however, some structural repairs were made in 1992.
Another argument made by opponents, is that the rule may, in some circumstances, increase a trader 's risk.
For example, a trader may use 3 day trades, and then enter a 4th position to hold overnight.
When a designer is designing something -LRB- whether it is a house or a computer program or a stapler -RRB-, they must make many decisions about how to solve problems.
A single problem, documented with its most common and recognized good solution seen in the wild, is a single design pattern.
Each pattern has a name, a descriptive entry, and some cross-references, much like a dictionary entry.
A documented pattern must also explain why that solution may be considered a good one for that problem, in the given context.
Patterson and Gimlin sought various experts to examine the film.
Patterson claimed to have screened the film for unnamed technicians `` in the special effects department at Universal Studios in Hollywood ....
It might be done, but we would have to say that it would be almost impossible' `` Hunter and Dahinden, 119.
Boyd claims that when she rebuffed Clapton 's advances in late 1970, he descended into heroin addiction and self-imposed exile with Alice Ormsby-Gore for three years.
Boyd states that she divorced Clapton after years of alcoholism as well as numerous affairs on his part, which began before their marriage.
As in the UK, in Ireland the word ` burger' is often used both to refer to a disc of processed meat and also to an American style hamburger.
Traditional fast food outlets often offer ` spice burgers' and ` batter burgers' which are unadorned ` patties' served in little grease-proof paper bags.
The squash is most tender when relatively immature ; it is generally served when it is no more than two to three inches in diameter.
In fine cuisine, its tender flesh is sometimes scooped out and mixed with flavorings such as garlic prior to reinsertion ; the scooped-out husk of a pattypan also is sometimes used as a decorative container for other foods.
Pattypan is a good source of magnesium, niacin, and vitamins A and C. One cup contains approximately 20 to 30 calories and no fat.
It is often sliced, coated and fried until golden brown.
As one astute observer saw it, the governor was `` tempering political expedience with common sense, yet still attempting to ease down the more radical, emotional, ignorant groups without losing those votes. ''.
And so `` ambivalent Paul '' cound denounce in picturesque and biting language the impending civil rights law and could declare that `` It is an odd thing that so much hell is being raised over three people missing in Mississippi when 10,000 are missing in New York '', while welcoming Allan Dulles and J. Edgar Hoover to Mississippi and firing a couple of Ku Kluxers from the Highway Patrol.
While castigating the civil rights workers and refusing even to meet with responsible Negro leaders, he did come down hard for law enforcement and played a major role in ending the violence in Pike County.
Major leagues = 1998-2000Bako made his major league debut with the Tigers on April 30, 1998, going 0-for-4 with three strikeouts.
His first major league hit, a bases-loaded double, came the next day off Bill Swift, when he went 2-for-5 against the Seattle Mariners in a 17-3 Tigers win.
He hit his first major league home run on May 15 against the Oakland Athletics ; it came off Mike Mohler in the bottom of the sixth inning with two runners -LRB- Damion Easley, Joe Randa -RRB- on base.
Titled' A Little Stone' -LRB- John Lehmann, London, August 1950 -RRB-, which excluded two of Bowles' most famous short stories, `` Pages From Cold Point '' and `` The Delicate Prey '', on the advice of Cyril Connolly and Somerset Maugham, that if they were included in the collection distribution and/or censorship difficulties might ensue.
When responding to the claim that almost all of the characters in `` The Delicate Prey '' were victimized by either physical or psychological violence, -LSB- Beat Writers at Work : The Paris Review Interviews : Paul Bowles, Page 190 -RSB- Bowles responded : `` Yes, I suppose.
But it can and does, and people need to be ready for it.
What you make for others is first of all what you make for yourself.
Brady joined the popular Irish band The Johnstons when Michael Johnston left.
Despite some success, Brady returned to Ireland in 1974 to join the Irish group Planxty.
The next few years saw him establish his popularity and reputation as one of Ireland 's best interpreters of traditional songs.
-LRB- Ironically, Bénichou never wrote a major work on Baudelaire, though he published a number of significant essays on the author of ` Les Fleurs du mal'. -RRB-.
Taken together, these works constitute a coherent study of French literature and thought from 1750 to 1898, analyzing the spiritual predicament of modern France and shedding light on the literature of other Western nations as well as on contemporary problems of global civilization.
Paul Cuffee always felt the need to do something about the demeaning conditions that many African-Americans lived under in the American colonies.
Due to his wealth, Cuffee did not live the average life of blacks in America so he sought ways to help others who had not been as fortunate.
Unfortunately, most Americans felt that blacks were inferior to Europeans, even in the predominantly Calvinist and Quaker New England.
As a child and adolescent he had a number of run-ins with the law and spent several months in jail before joining a band of traveling minstrels.
He grew in fame and began performing in several regional theaters before joining John Hamlin 's national show in 1878.
He continued traveling nationally with a number of different acts, eventually joining the ` The Tin Soldier' in 1890.
There he began writing many prominently featured songs which led him to begin publishing music independently.
Engle is often mistakenly credited with having founded the Iowa Writers' Workshop -LRB- an honor that more appropriately belongs to his predecessor, Wilbur Schramm -RRB-.
Additionally, Engle increased enrollment and oversaw numerous students of future fame and influence, including Flannery O'Connor, Philip Levine, Donald Justice, and Robert Bly.
Excluded volume refers to the idea that one part of a long chain molecule can not occupy space that is already occupied by another part of the same molecule.
At the theta point, the chain reverts to ideal chain characteristics - the long-range interactions arising from excluded volume are eliminated, allowing the experimenter to more easily measure short-range features such as structural geometry, bond rotation potentials, and steric interactions between near-neighboring groups.
Flory correctly identified that the chain dimension in polymer melts would have the size computed for a chain in ideal solution if excluded volume interactions were neutralized by experimenting at the theta point.
Frees is well-remembered for many characters in Rankin/Bass cartoons and stop-motion animated TV specials, including the central villain Burgermeister Meisterburger and his assistant Grimsby in ` Santa Claus Is Comin' to Town' -LRB- 1970 -RRB-.
He was several voices, including Eon the Terrible, in ` Rudolph 's Shiny New Year' in 1976.
He provided the voices for several J. R. R. Tolkien characters -LRB- most notably the dwarf Bombur -RRB- in Rankin/Bass animated versions of ` The Hobbit' and ` The Return of the King'.
He also voiced King Haggard 's wizard Mabruk in ` The Last Unicorn' and provided several voices for the Jackson Five cartoon series between 1971 and 1973.
The organization also deals with other issues, including crime and punishment, multiculturalism and immigration.
With Canada 's best-known supremacist deported, former teacher Paul Fromm is working to revive the far-right movement '', ` The Globe and Mail', March 5, 2005.
These three groups still exist today and are still led by Fromm.
Fromm 's leadership of these groups has given him some access to the mainstream media, such as radio talk shows and newspapers.
Unhappy with limited sales, Haig left Crepuscule to seek another major deal.
After demos recorded for EMI came to nothing, Haig spent most of 1986 writing new material, surviving on PRS royalties from his Crepuscule back catalogue.
He also found time to embark on a fruitful partnership with another Associate, Billy Mackenzie, the result being low key dates in Glasgow and Edinburgh, which mixed their own greatest hits with covers such as Running Away and Yoko Ono 's ` Walking On Thin Ice'.
Later the pair united to perform Amazing Grace on a Scots ` Hogmanay' television programme, and each donated a song to the other 's forthcoming album.
The symbol is definitely not my invention - it appeared in popular magazines -LRB- not mathematical ones -RRB- before I adopted it, but, once again, I seem to have introduced it into mathematics.
It is the symbol that sometimes looks like -LSB- an empty square -RSB-, and is used to indicate an end, usually the end of a proof.
Hayne was an emerging poet and published various collections of poems, including a complete edition in 1882.
Like other fellow Southern poets of his day, his work was highly descriptive of nature.
In 2005 and 2006, Jacob worked with an Oklahoma group, Oklahomans in Action, to place on the ballot an initiative, Stop Overspending, one of several measures run in different states known as the Taxpayer Bill of Rights, or TaBOR.
Jacob claims the petition 's organizers had sought, and received, approval for this from the Oklahoma Secretary of State., Free Paul Jacob website, October 2, 2007 A conviction would have carried a maximum fine of $ 25,000, and the maximum jail sentence of ten years in prison.
Jacob was indicted with two others in the case, and each pleaded not guilty., ` Tulsa World', October 3, 2007 A website -- FreePaulJacob.com -- was put up in Jacob 's defense. -- website.
He was a programmer of the Hong Kong Government in the 1960s, providing software expertise to various government departments including education, transport, security, industry and trade.
In the next 17 years, Mr. Kan worked with various international groups as a systems analyst for computer projects, including the Swire Group for its aviation, trading and shipping systems.
In 1987, he founded the Champion Technology Group and soon launched the world 's first Chinese message receiver and wireless communication system, a major milestone and a solid foundation for his subsequent and continuing pursuit in the information technology arena.
The Champion Technology Group has since positioned itself in the development of wireless communications software and related applications in various environments.
Krugman later argued that `` The Ascent of E-Man '' was in character, writing `` I have always been a free-market Keynesian : I like free markets, but I want some government supervision to correct market failures and ensure stability. ''.
Krugman noted his previous relationship with Enron in that article and in other articles he wrote on the company.Paul Krugman,.
Retrieved March 28, 2007. Krugman was one of the first to argue that deregulation of the California energy market had led to illegal market-manipulation by Enron and other energy companies.Paul Krugman,, Retrieved October 27, 2008.
With his no-nonsense demeanor and intensely professional attitude, Paul serves as the primary `` straight man '' at Crane, Poole & Schmidt and is often frustrated by the unethical and erratic behavior of both Denny Crane and Alan Shore.
Paul has threatened to fire Alan on numerous occasions, once being while Alan considered eliciting testimony from a doctor that would harm the firm 's own client, and again when Alan himself was on trial for paying a man to engage in a barfight on his behalf.
On the other hand, he is often portrayed as representing business interests before social justice.
In an ethically questionable and likely illegal move, he had her forcibly abducted from her apartment and taken to a rehabilitation facility -LRB- after giving her a chance to consent to going of her own will and being refused -RRB-, where she currently resides.
Despite his college success, Lo Duca spent many years in the minor leagues, after being drafted in the 25th round of the 1993 Amateur Draft.
Lo Duca drew comparisons to Dodgers predecessors Mike Scioscia and Mike Piazza -- all three were capable and popular everyday catchers who were homegrown through the Dodgers' organization, and all three are of Italian-American ancestry.
On the other hand, Lo Duca 's primary strength is as a contact hitter, like Scioscia, but unlike the power-hitting Piazza.
His plays were often broadcast on television.
He also took part in numerous German and Austrian films like `` Zyankali '' -LRB- 1947 -RRB- or `` Kaiserball '' -LRB- 1956 -RRB- and so he became international popular.
It accounts for the evolution of the human species from the advent of its philogenetic branching from other hominids through physiological and behavioral adaptations until we arrive at our current civilization.
As such, this theory serves as a possible new pathway to the unification of the natural and social sciences as well as to bringing new insight into contemporary human behavior -- from sexuality and childrearing to political, economic and religious behaviours, among others.
This theory is significant because it integrates a number of anthropological, archeological, biological and psychological changes in the history of human origin into a synthesized explanation of human evolutionary change as behavioral adaptations using contemporary scientific understanding.
In the 1990s his work began incorporating a comparativist dimension, culminating in the publication in 2004 of ` Aboriginal societies and the common law : a history of sovereignty, status and self-determination'.'.
In particular McHugh argues for the historicisation not just of legal doctrine, but of the notion of law itself, so that the history of the common law 's encounter with tribal societies becomes also an expression of the change in the nature and modalities of legal thought.
The second half of the book considers the modern history of aboriginal rights, once they had been admitted into what he calls the ` common-law rights-place' as a result of key court judgments.
All common-law jurisdictions -LRB- Canada in 1973 ; the United States in 1978 ; New Zealand in 1986 -- 91 ; and Australia in 1992 and 1996 -RRB- experienced the impact of major court judgments dramatically reconfiguring state relations with the tribes.
As it turned out, this was actually a major factor in the gameplay.
The first round, for instance, where the Aztec is running for the pyramid while dodging arrows, is all about learning to push forward or back almost instinctively depending on whether the arrow was high or low.
-LRB- Note : while this may sound very ` maverick' of me, let me warn you ; this is by no means guarantees popularity. -RRB-.
`` I 've done so many remixes from the likes of the Rolling Stones to Snoop Dogg etc, but you can only get a certain amount on the CD.
It was difficult for me but I had to choose what I wanted and what I felt were the best mixes that showcased my art in the best way. '' -- said Paul Oakenfold.With the film scores and soundtrack productions he did for $ 90,000,000, he decided in 2007 to play live at the Boston Pops which created a piece of orchestral music with electronic music.
The event took place in Miami for 10,000 people with a 75-piece orchestra, he wrote a piece of music which he described as `` difficult ''.
He shared stages at various times with Mary Bergin, Lunasa, Michael McGoldrick, Sean Ryan, Gerry O’Connor, Steve Cooney, Seamus Tansey and more.
Phillips taught and toured widely across Europe, the United States and even as far afield as Timbuktu in the Sahara in 2006, bringing the drum to ever wider audiences.
He was an experienced teacher and Comhaltas adjudicator and taught at many of the main summer schools in Ireland.
Eventually the Nazis would sterilize over 400,000 people under their sterilization laws ; in the USA the total would be around 65,000, about a third in California.
Paul continued to mess Diane around, standing her up on several occasions to be with Julie.
Meanwhile, Paul soon began to feel that Julie was merely using him in order to get a cheap deal for his labour and he began to take against her flirtatious behaviour towards other men.
She would not forgive Julie however, and played various vengeful tricks on her as payback.
His central argument on population is as follows : `` A cancer is an uncontrolled multiplication of cells ; the population explosion is an uncontrolled multiplication of people.
Treating only the symptoms of cancer may make the victim more comfortable at first, but eventually he dies - often horribly.
The pain may be intense.
The Paul R Jones Collection originated from Jones' discovery that the many museums he had been visiting held few works by African Americans.
The current collection took over forty years to amass and contains works in a variety of media, representing over three hundred of the nation 's African American artists.
His was not an isolated case ; CIA officials routinely trashed Bush administration policy decisions, often with official approval, in the months leading up to the Iraq War and again before the election. ''.
Pillar was a major participant in a conference `` sponsored by the John Bassett Moore Society of International Law, University of Virginia School of Law, and the Strategic Studies Institute -LRB- SSI -RRB-, U.S. Army War College, and was held February 25-26, 2005.
Conference participants included representatives from government agencies involved in the U.S. war on terrorism, students and faculty members from other universities ... ''.
It has become clear that official intelligence was not relied on in making even the most significant national security decisions, that intelligence was misused publicly to justify decisions already made, that damaging ill will developed between -LSB- Bush -RSB- policymakers and intelligence officers, and that the intelligence community 's own work was politicized. ''.
Like Winston Churchill, Reynaud was a maverick in his party and often alone in his calls for rearmament and resistance to German aggrandizement.
However, Pierre Étienne Flandin, the leader of the Alliance Démocratique, agreed with several of Reynaud 's key policy stances, particularly on Reynaud 's defense of economic liberalism.
He spent most of the 1980 's working directly in the field with cooperative farmers, creating and implementing training programs aimed at developing small farmers' organizational and business capacity.
This first-hand field experience gave him an understanding of the inherent weaknesses of the classic `` development aid '' model as well as insight into alternative, market-based approaches to sustainable development.In 1990 Paul founded and became the first CEO of PRODECOOP, a highly successful Fair Trade organic cooperative representing almost 3,000 small coffee farmers in northern Nicaragua.
Increasingly, the coffee industry is using Fair Trade as a business model that promotes sustainability, delivers value back to farmers and consumers, and builds profitability.Paul has received numerous prestigious international awards for his pioneering work as a social entrepreneur in the Fair Trade movement, including : the Ashoka Fellowship -LRB-.
Unfinished, and a little desultory, this history of a troop of strolling actors is almost the first French novel, in point of date, which shows real power of painting manners and character, and is singularly vivid.
It is in the style of the Spanish picaresque romance, and furnished Théophile Gautier with the idea and with some of the details of his ` Capitaine Fracasse'.
Scarron also wrote some shorter novels : ` La Precaution inutile', which inspired Sedaine 's ` Gageure imprévue ; Les Hypocrites', to which Tartuffe owes something, and others.
By the First World War, he had become a major proponent of traditional architecture, an originator of the `` Circa 1800 '' movement, and an important voice in both the Deutsche Werkbund and the nationalist German architecture and landscape preservation movement.
He is often seen on the phone with a vendor or service company demanding faster results.
American Chopper' on Discovery Channel He is also particular about neatness, often yelling -LRB- at least in the earlier episodes of ` American Chopper' -RRB- about the disorganization and cleanliness of the shop, and being described by Michael at one point as being `` like Martha Stewart on a motorcycle. ''.
However, his tendency for neatness and order notwithstanding, he is also known on occasion to break down a door or tear down a few walls in his workshops, if sufficiently motivated by the circumstances, a trait that he shares with Paul Jr., who also frequently doubles as his sparring partner.
Vehicles such as his Ford Expedition and several electric golf carts have also been crashed into walls and other objects.
The law, including the Wellstone Amendment, was seen as unconstitutional by groups and individuals of various political perspectives, including the California State Democratic Party, the National Rifle Association, and Republican Senator Mitch McConnell -LRB- Kentucky -RRB-, the Senate Majority Whip.
Wellstone saw McCain-Feingold 's protection of `` advocacy '' groups as a `` loophole '' allowing `` special interests '' to run last-minute election ads.
Wellstone pushed an amendment to extend McCain-Feingold 's ban on last-minute ads to nonprofits like `` the NRA, the Sierra Club, the Christian Coalition, and others. ''.
His views were almost polar opposites of those held by the new Conservative leader in 1964, Edward Heath, who remarked of Williams in 1966 : `` I thoroughly disagree with his views.
They are not the view of the modern Tory party, nor the views of the great majority of people in this country. ''.
-LRB- Copping, -LRB- ii -RRB- pp. 13, 16 -RRB-. He remained on the Club 's Executive Council until 1973 and was still listed as a Vice-President in 1991. \ n Copping, Robert, ` The Story of the Monday Club - The First Decade', London : Current Affairs Information Service, April 1972 \ n ` Who 's Who' -LRB- various editions, London : A. and C. Black, annual publication -RRB- \ n \ n \ n Category : Conservative MPs -LRB- UK -RRB- Category : UK MPs 1951-1955Category : UK MPs 1955-1959Category : UK MPs 1959-1964Category : Members of the United Kingdom Parliament for English constituenciesCategory : English businesspeopleCategory : Royal Air Force officersCategory : Royal Air Force personnel of World War IICategory : Alumni of Trinity Hall, CambridgeCategory : Old MarlburiansCategory :1922 birthsCategory :2008 deaths.
The men among us who make most use of the organic concept are satisfied that their opponents disagree with them only verbally, so far as the essential idea is concerned.
Since these differences relate to details and not to essentials, even the most zealous friends of the organic concept are satisfied that it can now take care of itself.
They are content to assume that it is taken for granted, and their interest is transferred to other fields -LRB- Small 1898 : 412 -RRB-.
Between 1900 and 1907, Paula made several extended trips to Paris for artistic purposes, sometimes living separately from her husband, Otto.
She visited contemporary exhibitions often, and was particularly intrigued with the work of Paul Cézanne.
Fauve influences may also appear in such works as.
The influence by the work of French painter, Jean-Francois Millet, who was widely admired among the artists in the Worpswede group, may be seen in such pieces as her 1900 ` Peat Cutters'.
Apart from the familiar electron, proton and neutron, these include neutrinos and quarks -LRB- from which protons and neutrons are made -RRB-, as well as some atoms like helium-3.
Particles with integer spin have a symmetric wave function and are called bosons ; in contrast to fermions, they may share the same quantum states.
When given control of the Soprano crew Paulie over saw all of Tony 's old business dealing, which included amongst others, the Paving Union, extorting drug dealers, the pump and dump scams, charging HMOs for fake MRI expenditures, fencing stolen cars, a phone card scam, gambling, loan sharking and the crew 's front businesses : Barone Sanitation and Massarone Construction.
Throughout the shows run other aspects of the crew 's criminal activities developed or were revealed.
By season 5 Paulie 's crew regained its position as one of the best earners in the family.
The character 's narrative also included various feuds, most notably with the soap 's lothario Den Watts, a family-friend who gets Pauline 's daughter Michelle pregnant at the age of 16.
` EastEnders' pulled in the biggest television audience of the 1980s when over 30 million people watched the 1986 Christmas Day episode in which Pauline discovers that Den is the father of her granddaughter, Vicki.
Wendy Richard has commented on the hostility between the characters `` once Pauline realised that Dennis was Vicki 's father, she was out to get him one way or another '' and actor Leslie Grantham, who played Den, added `` from then on it was out and out war, which was great ! ''.
Birdwatchers have sighted a variety of common and endangered species of birds that inhabit the Paulins Kill valley.
More common species include : American Robin, Barn Swallow, Field Sparrow, Blue Jay, Black-capped Chickadee, Northern Cardinal, Red-winged Blackbird and the American Goldfinch.
Also sighted are several species of Woodpecker, including Red-headed, Red-bellied, and Downy, and the endangered Pileated Woodpecker, as well as the Yellow-bellied Sapsucker.
More rare birds sighted in the Paulins Kill valley include : Purple martin, Scarlet Tanager, Indigo Bunting, Baltimore Oriole, Purple Finch, and a variety of owls, notably the Barn, Eastern Screech, Great Horned, Snowy, Barred, and Northern Saw-whet Owl., no further authorship information given, accessed December 20, 2006.
As an actor he has appeared a few times on the movies and on the television.
Access 58 tunes were hammered every single week by all the respected DJs in the techno scene such as : Jeff Mills, Carl Cox, Derrick May, Mr C, Laurent Garnier, Billy Nasty, Colin Dale and Adam Beyer to mention just a few.
Access 58 remixers and collaborators were Umek, Cari Lekebusch, The Advent, Steve Stoll, Pacou, Jamie Anderson, Colin Dale, Trevor Rockcliffe, Marco Lenzi, Mark Broom, Mark Williams and others.
A vendor created this dish using items or parts of other dishes available on the menu.
Roti or rice was replaced with pav and the curries that usually go with Indian bread or rice were amalgamated into just one spicy concoction-the ` bhaji'.
With time the dish found its way into restaurants and spread over Central Mumbai and other parts of the city via the Udipi restaurants.
Such is popularity of this dish, that it is common to find it on the menu of most Indian restaurants serving fast food in Asia -LRB- especially Singapore, Hong Kong -RRB-, America, UK -LRB- London -RRB-, Switzerland and elsewhere.
Despite being kept off the scoresheet in his NHL debut, Bure showcased his talent and speed with several end-to-end rushes, carrying the puck past several defenders from near his defensive zone to the opposing net.Banks 1999, pp. 67-68.
In the last game of the regular season, Bure scored a goal to tie Ivan Hlinka 's 1981 -- 82 team mark for most points by a rookie.Banks 1999, p. 76.
Bure 's addition to the Canucks lineup bolstered a core that featured Linden and goaltender Kirk McLean, a previous Vezina Trophy nominee in 1989 and 1992 as the league 's best goaltender, helping the Canucks to their first of two consecutive Smythe Division titles.
The delegation made the immediate observation that three years after their first visit, the Pavshino facility '' - in terms of material conditions, staff and medical care - was still clearly unsuitable for the needs of the people being held there. ''.
In one room 21 men occupied 16m2 with only 14 beds. despite the assistance of humanitarian organisations, clothing and footwear was inadequate for the forthcoming winter, and that inmates had to use buckets or even plastic bags, as no other toilet facilities were available from 8pm to 8am.
` Moscow Pietushki' was a poetic journey into the world of the Russian cult writer Venedikt Erofeev, for which he won Emmy and RTS Awards and others.
The oblique, ironic, imagistic, at times almost hypnotic study of myth-making and murder made aroused a storm of controversy and incomprehension at the time, but has now secured it something of a cult status.
A pawn storm might therefore be most effective when the players have castled on opposite wings of the board.
Pawn storms are often performed injudiciously by very inexperienced players.
In general, a pawn storm is best left until the middlegame or the endgame.
The second diagram shows the position after : 1. d4 Nf6 2. c4 c5 3. d5 e6 4. Nc3 exd5 5. cxd5 d6 6. e4 g6 7. f4 Bg7 8. Nf3 0-0. The Sicilian Defence, Dragon Variation is an opening that often leads to the players castling on opposite sides, which often soon leads to fierce pawn storms from both players.
If the pawnshop owner believes that there are `` too many used TVs around these days in town '', they may fear that they will only get $ 100 for the TV if they have to unload it to a wholesaler.
As such, the customer who comes in with this TV that they paid $ 1000 for when it was new may be offered as little as $ 50 by the pawnshop owner, who is taking into account all of the risk and cost factors.
In determining the amount of the loan, the pawnshop owner also assesses the likelihood that the customer will pay the interest for several weeks or months and then return to repay the loan and reclaim the item.
Since the key to the pawnshop business model is making interest off of the loaned money, pawnshop owners want to accept items that the customer is likely to want to recover, after having paid interest for a period on the loan.
In September 2007, Paxton purchased the ` Herald-Argus' of La Porte, Indiana amidst rumors that the paper would either be moved, merged, or have its staff severely cut, due to the recent acquisition of a number of rural newspapers in northern Indiana.
In order to allay those rumors, then-publisher John A. Newby wrote a column that firmly stated that the ` Herald-Argus' was profitable and `` lean '' and therefore would not see any dramatic changes.
Despite published claims to the contrary, in October, shortly after taking over operation of the paper, Paxton Media laid-off about half its staff at the ` Herald-Argus' and moved its production location to that of the Paxton-owned ` Herald-Palladium' in St. Joseph, Michigan, which by Paxton 's own admission, has negatively impacted the paper 's ability to publish timely local news.
The remaining ` Herald-Argus' staffers and the staffers at other nearby Paxton-owned papers were specifically instructed not to publish information regarding the ` Herald-Argus' staff cuts and production changes.
Purchased by O'Reilly Auto Parts on July 11, 2008 for approximately 1 billion dollars, also receiving 500 million of CKS 's debt Now operating as Schuck 's O'Reilly Auto Parts.
Alaska stores kept for a few years.
Inmates are allowed to bring an iPod, cellphone, or laptop in their cell or watch TV in the common room.
Prisoners are safe from prison gangs and other dangerous prisoners.
They may have their food delivered to their cell rather than going the jail 's cafeteria or they may choose to enjoy meals brought by their families during visiting hours.
There are five major impoundments in the Payette basin : Black Canyon, Sage Hen, Paddock, Cascade, and Deadwood reservoirs.
There are also several small impoundments and natural lakes with increased storage, such as the three Payette Lakes.
Sand from upstream land disturbances has covered most of the habitat.
The fact that different protocols allow different data types may lead to problems in payload definition.
That is, a system must either determine at design time all possible service protocol implementations that might be used by their service for all time, or a payload must be designed with `` least common denominator '' data types.
For example, a Java based direct call Service Protocol implementation would likely allow any Java type to be sent.
In order to dynamically switch from one protocol to another, the payload design must implement only the simplest types which all protocols will accept without error, or use Payload Abstraction.
The archaeologists found a complex of several rooms, organised around a square court.
To the north, the baths and other rooms were heated by hypocausts.
The slopes are covered with dense deciduous and higher up, coniferous forests, dotted with numerous artificial lakes.
The largest one is the Batak Dam, on whose shores are built two resorts : ` Tsigov Chark' and ` Saint Konstantin' as well as many villas and shrines.
Fish is abundant in the dams, including carp, rudd, roach barbel, perch, zander and many others ; the mountain streams are rich in trout.
The most famous landmarks are located in Panagyurishte, Pazardzhik, Batak, Velingrad.
The ` Pazz & Jop' critics' poll is a poll of music critics run by ` The Village Voice' newspaper.
It is compiled every year from the top ten lists of hundreds of music critics -LRB- roughly 800 in the 2004 poll -RRB-.
Since the poll 's inception, critics have been invited to award their ten albums a total of 100 points, with each album receiving a maximum of 30 points and a minimum of 5.
In modern times, however, peas are usually boiled or steamed, which breaks down the cell walls and makes the taste sweeter and the nutrients more bio-available.
Along with broad beans and lentils, these formed an important part of the diet of most people in Europe during the Middle Ages -LRB- Bianchini 1975 p 40 -RRB-.
By the 1600s and 1700s it had become popular to eat peas `` green '', that is, while they are immature and right after they are picked.
This was especially true in France and England, where the eating of green peas was said to be `` both a fashion and a madness '' -LRB- OSU 2006 -RRB-.
They were a fearless, happy people who were more settled than the Osage.
The coin almost made a return in 1964, when Congress approved the mintage of 45 million new silver dollars to fulfill the needs of the booming casino industry in Nevada..
Retrieved June 25, 2006. The decision was controversial due to a critical silver shortage in 1965, which led to widespread hoarding of silver coinage..
Peace Studies examines intrapersonal peace, peace between individuals, neighbours, ethnic groups, states and civilisations. \ n Multicultural.
Gandhi is often cited as a paradigm of Peace Studies.
However, true multiculturalism remains an aspiration as most Peace Studies centres are located in the West. \ n Both analytic and normative.
Islam is a monotheistic religion and according to ` Quran' all people are children of Adam.
Satan is considered the enemy of humanity, causing enmity among all people.
The series of prophets and messengers coming from God through out the ages is to call the people again towards their innate identity of love and friendship.
The individual who will recognize his true nature on which every person is created will be able to live together in society with peace and affection to each other.In his Last Sermon, the Prophet Muhammad admonished believers :.
A bird that has only one recessive gene for a specific trait is said to be `` split '' for that trait.
Thus, a bird who receives a green base-color gene from one parent and a blue-series gene from the other parent would be visually Wild Green, as Green is dominant, but `` split '' for the blue trait.Beyond the base coloring of a Peachfaced Lovebird, there are mutations that exist independently of any other mutation.
As with the base-color recessive traits, a bird that has only one recessive gene from one parent 's contributed genetic code is said to be `` split '' for that trait.Sex-linked traits are a little bit more complex because these recessive traits are carried on the genetic information which determines the gender of a bird.
These genes are usually referred to in simplified terms as `` X '' and `` Y '' genes.
The Peak District provides opportunities for many types of outdoor activity.
An extensive network of public footpaths and numerous long-distance trails, over in total, as well as large open-access areas, are available for hillwalking and hiking.
Bridleways are commonly used by mountain bikers, as well as horse riders.
Sadler fielded the # 13 Ford Taurus sponsored by the Virginia Lottery for three races that year, his best finish was a 27th at Dover.
The team switched to Chevrolet and # 02 for 2002, starting eight races and having a variety of different sponsorships. 2004 saw the car field a ride for a variety of drivers including Carl Long, Andy Belmont, and Jason Jarrett, as well as Sadler himself for 16 races.
The team also fielded an entry for three races in 2002 in the Busch Series, with a best finish of 29th.
They ran an additional three races in 2003, again getting a best finish of 29th.
The crown is one color, often white for navies, light blue for air forces, and green for armies, and may be piped around the edge in a different color.
The band can be one color, often black, or can be striped, vertically or horizontally.
The peak or visor is short, historically made of leather, or in newer caps may be a shiny plastic.
Peanut oil is often used in cooking, because it has a mild flavor and burns at a relatively high temperature.
Under the name ` Plumpy ` nut' 100 g -LRB- 3.5 ounces -RRB-, two small bags per day are given by the World Health Organization as a surviving base to many children in Africa.
Peanuts are often a major ingredient in mixed nuts because of their inexpensiveness compared to Brazil nuts, cashews, walnuts, and so on.
There are, however, pictures of adult hands in strips and Charlie Brown 's father 's voice in others.
The name of the district as recorded on Ordnance Survey maps is Pear Tree, although the alternative spelling Peartree is also common locally.
The Peartree variant is used by the railway station, the police station and the NHS clinic ; this is also the more commonly used name by local businesses.
With regard to local street names, the two word version is officially in use -LRB- Pear Tree Road, Crescent, Street -RRB-, but this is usually reflected in older -LRB- pre-Second World War -RRB- street signs, more modern signs usually use Peartree.
The nucleus is generally a polished bead made from freshwater mussel shell.
Along with a small piece of mantle tissue from another mollusk to serve as a catalyst for the pearl sac, it is surgically implanted into the gonad -LRB- reproductive organ -RRB- of a saltwater mollusk.
In freshwater perliculture, only the piece of tissue is used in most cases, and is inserted into the fleshy mantle of the host mussel.
South Sea and Tahitian pearl oysters, also known as ` Pinctada maxima' and ` Pinctada margaritifera', which survive the subsequent surgery to remove the finished pearl, are often implanted with a new, larger nucleus as part of the same procedure and then returned to the water for another 2 -- 3 years of growth.
However, the diary uses the Dutch abbreviation ` beW', meaning `` westerly '', contradicting Toland 's claim.
Nor did any other persons present at the briefings report hearing Toland 's version.
Pearl River High School has a few notable, long-standing events that make it unique, especially for its gradutating seniors.
Every year, students take the liberty of creating a new design for a wall on the high school 's tennis court, and as a class put the design into action by taking a few days before graduation to paint their ideas on the wall.
A picture of the most recent graduating class' wall design can be seen at.
There is catered food and entertainment throughout the night usually including a hypnotist, DJ, and recreational equipment.
Such films consist basically of continuous, non-pigmented inorganic or organic polymeric materials, which are manufactured in a thickness of a few to several hundred micrometers.
Effect pigments, on the other hand, generate their optical attractiveness in the application system because of the ability of easy parallel orientation of a multitude of platelet-like particles.
Reflection, multiple reflection, and interference is here likewise possible, also under circumstances where the particles are partly disoriented, only the achieved effects can be different.
By 1910, nearly 400 pearling luggers and more than 3500 people were fishing for shell in waters around Broome, making it the world 's largest pearling centre.
The majority of the workers were Japanese and Malaysian, but also included were Chinese, Filipino, Amborese, Koepanger -LRB- Timorese -RRB- and Makassan, as well as Indigenous Australians and people from Europe.
Peasant societies often had well developed social support networks.
Especially in harder climates, members of the community who had a poor harvest or suffered other hardships were taken care of by the rest of the community.
Peasants usually only had one set of clothing, two at most.
Events leading to the revoltThe poll taxThe revolt was precipitated by heavy-handed attempts to enforce the third poll tax, first levied in 1377 supposedly to finance military campaigns overseas - a continuation of the Hundred Years' War initiated by King Edward III of England.
The youth of King Richard II -LRB- aged only 14 -RRB- was another reason for the uprising : a group of unpopular men ruled in his stead.
Although the whole parish has a population of around 1,500, only a few dozen houses make up the main centre of the village.
Although a popular destination for tourists, this apparent remoteness makes it quieter than other local villages -LRB- Shere in particular -RRB- for visitors.
The attractive nature of the village means it is often used for TV location filming.
The plaintiffs are seeking, among other things, an injunction voiding the existing permits, including water-use permits, issued to Pebble Limited Partnership, Pebble East Corp., and Pebble West Corp. by the State of Alaska Department of Natural Resources.
The injunction being sought is specific to Pebble permits and would not directly apply to other mineral exploration projects -LRB- or to mining operations -RRB- in the state.
The suit alleges that the DNR 's `` pattern of permitting, '' is defective because it has not been sufficiently rigorous in determining that issuing a permit will best serve public interest, as demonstrated by a lack of documented scientific studies by the DNR and by a lack of public review and input, prior to issuing routine permits.
A Declaration by one of the plaintiffs references the Commentary on Article VIII on State Lands and Natural Resources of December 15, 1955 ; `` As requirements change and many tasks become routine, appropriate modifications can be made in procedures if rigid requirements are not specified in the Constitution itself. ''.
The Five Americans are known for their hit song `` Western Union ''.
The Ides of March had a quite different hit song several years after this track was recorded called `` Vehicle '' -LRB- referred to on the liner notes of this album as a `` horn dirge '' -RRB-.
The marvelous cover of `` The Train Kept A-Rollin' '' by Steve Walker & the Bold is played much faster than most other recordings of this classic.
Pecan Park is located approximately south of downtown Houston inside Interstate 610 to the east of Interstate 45 in the East End area.
The name Pecan Park generally refers to the larger neighborhood, of which there are over 30 individual subdivisions, with Pecan Park being the largest.
The original streets were paved in shell, with asphalt paving becoming widespread during the 1930s and 1940s, when the majority of the homes in the area were constructed.
The area was nearly completely built out by 1955, with the homes being examples of typical middle class residential architecture for Houston at the time ; Bungalow, both brick and wood sided, Cape Cod, early Ranch and many mildly Tudor influenced English Cottages.
Initially the people of surname Kurapati were migrated to this place, so this village was got named with their surname.
Pedakurapadu was the major panchayathi having the facilities like water supply, lower primary school, upper primary school, 30-bed government hospital, petrol bunk, bus station and railway station.
There are no other chordophones except various types of harps.
Harps have been found in ancient Sumerian ruins, thousands of years B.C.E.. They were common to the Hebrew tribes, the Egyptians, and in Asian cultures as well.
The Spanish brought harps to Latin America where they became widespread in use.
Lyon and Healy, Camac Harps, and other manufacturers also make electric pedal harps.
In the 1990s, standalone electronic MIDI controller pedalboards became widely available.
In jazz organ trios, a keyboardist using this type of pedalboard will usually connect it to a MIDI-compatible electronic Hammond organ-style keyboard.
Larger 25-note Roland pedalboards also include an expression pedal for controlling the volume or other parameters.
Pederasty was constructed in various ways.
In other areas, such as Elis, boys were persuaded by means of gifts, and in a few, such as Ionia, Plato, ` Symposium,' 182A such relations were forbidden altogether.
Special markings are often made on the road surface, both to direct pedestrians and to prevent motorists from stopping vehicles in the way of foot traffic.
Depending on jurisdiction and university, a medical degree course may be either undergraduate-entry or graduate-entry.
The former commonly takes five or six years, and has been usual in the Commonwealth.
Entrants to graduate-entry courses -LRB- as in the USA -RRB-, usually lasting four or five years, have previously completed a three - or four-year university degree, commonly but by no means always in sciences.
` Pedicularis densiflora', known commonly as ` Indian warrior', is a plant of the lousewort genus in the broomrape family.
Like others of its genus, it is a root parasite, attaching to the roots of other plants to obtain nutrients and water.
This species is a facultative parasite, or hemiparasite, in that it can live without attaching to another plant but will parasitize if presented with the opportunity.
It often parasitizes plants of the heath family, such as manzanita.
Toronto, Canada : M & M Graphics. -LRB- 1985 -RRB- and Ward ` et al.' -LRB- 1995 -RRB-, there are generally large distinctions between the two types of offenders' characteristics.
Situational offenders tend to offend at times of stress ; have a later onset of offending ; have fewer, often familial victims ; and have a general preference for adult partners.
Pedophilic offenders, however, often start offending at an early age ; often have a large number of victims who are frequently extrafamilial ; are more inwardly driven to offend ; and have values or beliefs that strongly support an offense lifestyle.
The story is an adaptation of a popular tradition and provides a lively picture of village life in Alarcón 's native region of Andalusia.
Alarcón wrote another popular short novel, ` El capitán Veneno' -LRB- ` Captain Poison', 1881 -RRB-.
He produced four other full-length novels.
Alarcón also wrote three travel books and many short stories and essays.
` Pedro Berruguete' -LRB- c. 1450 - 1504 -RRB- was a Spanish painter ; his art is regarded as a transitional style between gothic and Renaissance.
He came back to Spain in 1482 and painted in several cities, such as Sevilla, Toledo and Ávila.
After trying to make his fortune in various schemes in Peru, around 1656 he had himself crowned Inca -LRB- emperor -RRB- of the Calchaquíes Indians, fooling not only the Indians, but also Spanish government and clerical officials.
The Audiencia wished to drive a number of Japanese from the city, but when this was attempted and force employed, the Japanese resisted, and the matter came to such a pass that they took arms to oppose it.
Afterward as many as possible were embarked in vessels, much against their will.
Calderón was a perfectionist who often revisited and reworked his plays, even long after they debuted.
Calderón excelled above all others in the genre of the `` auto sacramental '', in which he showed a seemingly inexhaustible capacity to giving new dramatic forms to a given set of theological constructs.
For the most part of his the time he was surrounded by employees who only had permission to speak to him when questioned.
The way Pedro II was raised made him become a shy and needy personCarvalho -LRB- 2007 -RRB-, p. 33 who tried to escape from reality by making `` books another world where he could isolate and protect himself ''. Barman -LRB- 1999 -RRB-, p. 39 `` The only means available to him for holding that world at bay lay within himself.
Learning, and above all books, opened for the child another and more friendly existence. ''.
It was of such magnitude that several hundred year old cypress trees in the local cemetery were uprooted and fell on surrounding tombstones.
The swimming pool was crowded with people -LRB- minutes before the thermometer marked more than 40 ° C -RRB- and there was mass panic.
Coincidentally, another August 12, but in 2007 an earthquake -LRB- magnitude 5.1 on the Richter scale -RRB- with its epicenter in the municipality of Pedro Munoz shook most of the Iberian peninsula.
In the other hand, a different accident happened in Makati City.
Another incident took place in Tondo, Manila, where an evil monster came out of the garbage dump, and attacked the people.
Moy, the last Engkantao, used his powers to kill the snakes, that were attacking the people.
A similar accusation was made at the same time against another bishop, Juan Arias Davila, of Segovia.
He was arraigned for having taken food before mass and for having desecrated, by scratching, a crucifix and other holy images.
Since many Pee Dee were already of mixed ancestry, people began to pass in order to make their day to day lives easier.
Those whose complexions were darker were often forced to go to `` black '' schools.
However, there were a few Indian schools around the Neeses, South Carolina and Charleston, South Carolina areas during that time.
Previously three concerts had been performed by Paul Robeson in Peekskill without incident, but in recent years Robeson had been increasingly vocal against the Ku Klux Klan and other forces of white supremacy, both domestically and internationally.
Robeson had also appeared before the House Committee on Un-American Activities to oppose a bill that would require Communists to register as foreign agents, and, just months before the concert in 1949, he had appeared at the World Peace Conference in Paris, stating `` it is unthinkable that American Negroes will go to war in behalf of those who have oppressed us for generations ... against a country which in one generation has raised our people to the full dignity of mankind. ''.
The local paper, The Peekskill Evening Star, condemned the concert and encouraged people to make their position on Communism felt, but fell short of espousing violence.There was a racial element to the riots including burning crosses and lynches in effigy of Robeson both in Peekskill and in other areas of the United States.Robeson, Susan ` The Whole World in His Hands : A Pictorial Biography of Paul Robeson' Chapter 5, The Politics of Persecution, pg .182.
Sometimes the showman would perform for a crowd with puppets or pictures outside the box and then charge people extra to look through the holes.
The box had six holes through which people could see scenes backlit by a central candle.
Other common subjects in peep shows throughout the world have been exotic views and animals, scenes of classical drama or masques, court ceremonies, surprise transformations -LRB- e.g., of an angel into a devil -RRB- and of course, lewd pictures.
These superior ability are shown in the novel several times by Cal.
He claims to need to tape over the light of his DVD player to be able to sleep at night, as well as being able to read fine print by starlight.
The ` Peer Leadership Program', often known as ` Peer', is a school-run organization that looks upon upperclassmen to help ease the transition of freshmen to high school.
Before meeting with smaller groups of newcomers the larger Peer organization is trained to deal with the psychological and emotional needs the newcomers may express.
Because student mentors are closer in age, knowledge, authority and cognitive development than adult mentors, mentorees often feel freer to express ideas, ask questions, and take risks.
These similarities also make it easier for mentors to understand personal and academic problems that the mentoree may be experiencing, and present solutions in a more understandable and relevant way.
Before then, its application was lax in other scientific fields.
In a recent editorial in ` Nature', it was stated that `` in journals in those days, the burden of proof was generally on the opponents rather than the proponents of new ideas. ''.
An author often uses autoplagiarism to pad their list of publications.
` Peer Supervision Groups' are professional support groups in the helping professions that provide a safe place to explore the personal and professional development of the practitioner.
Professional Peer Supervision Groups provide a forum for self care that is essential when working with others in professions that require that the therapists/practitioners to give so much of themselves.
Peer Supervision Groups are a safe place to explore issues such as why do we help others, dual relationships, transference and counter-transference and other issues that are arise in a therapeutic relationship.
It is often an expression of the help we need ourselves.
The letters patent directed that, if the holder of the barony ever succeeded to the earldom, then he would be automatically deprived of the barony as if he died naturally without issue, the barony being diverted to another line.
By succeeding to the earldom, he was deprived of the Barony of Buckhurst, which was then claimed by a third brother, Mortimer.
Note, however, that it is possible to prevent a person from succeeding to a peerage in the first place, but not possible to deprive a person of a peerage after having succeeded to it.
On the other hand, Reginald Sackville-West succeeded to the barony but was later stripped of it-an impermissible action.
Although Seiya began his journey as a Bronze Saint, the lowest of three ranks, his abilities gradually grow to rival those of the Gold Saints, the most powerful of Athena 's soldiers.
Seiya starts this attack at Mach 1 speed, and later develops it to achieve lightspeed for a few seconds.
George Padmore, the West Indian Pan-Africanist was best man, deputising for Kwame Nkrumah, who was too busy as the new leader of Government Business to attend himself.
One of the Jimmy Lewis songs was a novelty track which twisted the common complaint of a wife keeping her man faithful.
The twist was that her man had romantic and sexual desires for another man.
The music video to `` Bill '' also became popular.
The school 's most ambitious community project to date.
Teams covered the historical, scientific and the scenic aspects of Jalan Kayu, documenting information through various mediums.
A few months later in December of 415, another synod in Diospolis -LRB- Lydda -RRB- under a Cesarean bishop was called by two deposed bishops who came to Palestine.
Pelagius explained to the synod that he did believe God was necessary for salvation because every human is created by God.
He also showed letters of recommendation by other authoritative figures including Augustine himself who, for all their disagreements, thought highly of Pelagius' character.
A scenario of general ecological change - exacerbated by the beginning ice age and changes in ocean currents due to plate tectonic shifts -LRB- e.g. the emergence of the Antarctic circumpolar current or the closing of the Isthmus of Panama -RRB- - is more likely, with the pseudotooth birds as remnants of the world 's Paleogene fauna ultimately failing to adapt.
` Pelargonium graveolens' is a species in the ` Pelargonium' genus, which is indigenous to various parts of southern Africa, and in particular South Africa.
It is often called geranium as it falls within the plant family Geraniaceae, although more correctly, it is referred to as Pelargonium.
` P. graveolens' cultivars have a wide variety of smells, including rose, citrus, mint, coconut and nutmeg, as well as various fruits.
However, the most commercially important varieties are those that have rose scents.
They also won most entertaining band.
In 2008, at the Lake Martin Invitational the visual ensemble got `` best in class '' in all three groups.They had the overall highest score of the day, and took home a bundle of awards. \ n Colorguard - state champions for four years running. participated in the World Indoor Division in Atlanta.
Acclaimed editor Nicholas Clemmons' departure left a huge void on the paper 's staff that they will struggle to recover from for many years to come.The Theatre Department has received the Critics Choice Award at the Alabama State Thespian Festival for 4 years.
The male brings the nesting material, ground-nesters -LRB- which may not build a nest -RRB- sometimes in the pouch and tree-nesters crosswise in the bill.
They may display when changing shifts.
All species lay at least two eggs, and hatching success for undisturbed pairs can be as high as 95 percent, but because of competition between siblings or outright siblicide, usually all but one nestling dies within the first few weeks -LRB- or later in the Pink-backed and Spot-billed species -RRB-.
This windstorm killed two people in a mobile home.
It remained for 14 miles -LRB- 22 km -RRB- but this F2 rotation partially damaged a church, twenty-six homes and mobile homes including other buildings in Coal City.
Ninety other homes and mobile homes suffered minor to major destruction.
An additional twelve people were injured.
` Pellaea andromedifolia' is a species of cliff brake fern known by the common name ` coffee fern'.
Its leaves bear rounded or oval-shaped segments widely spaced along the rachis.
Each segment may curl under along its edges.
Pellagra is common in Africa, Mexico, Indonesia, and China.
In affluent societies, a majority of patients with clinical pellagra are poor, homeless, alcohol dependent, or psychiatric patients who refuse food.
It was common amongst prisoners of Soviet labor camps, the infamous Gulag.
In addition, pellagra is a micronutrient deficiency disease that frequently affects populations of refugees and other displaced people due to their unique, long-term residential circumstances and dependence on food aid.
He has many legitimate and illegitimate children ; his sons Tor, Aglovale, Lamorak, Dornar, and Percival all eventually join the Round Table as well, and his unnamed daughter -LRB- see Dindrane -RRB- becomes a servant of the Holy Grail and helps Percival, Galahad and Bors achieve the mystical object.
Composing the operaDebussy 's ideal of operaLooking back in 1902, Debussy explained the protracted genesis of his only finished opera : `` For a long time I had been striving to write music for the theatre, but the form in which I wanted it to be was so unusual that after several attempts I had given up on the idea. ''.
In the 1880s the young composer had toyed with several opera projects -LRB- ` Diane au Bois', ` Axël' -RRB- before accepting a libretto on the theme of El Cid, entitled ` Rodrigue et Chimene', from the poet and Wagner aficionado Catulle Mendes.
A ` peltarion', ` pelta' or ` pelte' was a crescent-shaped wicker shield commonly used in the ancient world before the 3rd century BCE and gradually replaced in some cases with the thureos.
It also usually had a carring strap to allow it to be slung from the back.
`` Pem girls '' like to pass on ghost stories concerning the usually-locked fourth floor, and a plaque in the foyer dedicated to the building 's first matron, Mary Hawkins.
The most recent expansion of the college came in the 1960s, after the closure of Beef Lane to the north of Chapel Quad.
The private houses north of the closed road were acquired by the College in a piecemeal fashion and reversed so that access was only possible from the rear.
A modern annex was built near to college on the banks of the Isis at Grandpont, provides accommodation for almost a hundred undergraduates, usually those in their final year.
Generations of Pemmasani clan were commanders for various dynasties of Vijayanagar EmpireVijayanagara, Burton Stein, Cambridge University Press, 1989, p. 92, ISBN 0521266939.
Proudha Devaraya gifted the Yadaki Paragana to Timma Nayudu in 1431 as recognition of his valour in many a battle with Muslims.
A branch of Pemmasani clan belong to Musunurla gothram which point out their origin from the village Musunuru in Krishna district and their possible relation to the Musunuri Nayaks.
In the film ` Good Will Hunting', a student can be seen spinning his pen in one of the classroom scenes at MIT. \ n Boris Grishenko, the fictional character in the 1995 James Bond movie ` Goldeneye' portrayed by Alan Cumming, often spins pens while working. \ n Val Kilmer 's character, Iceman, can be seen spinning a pen in the films ` Top Gun' and ` Real Genius'.
Kilmer often manipulates objects, normally coins or poker chips, in his films which became a trademark of his. \ n In the PC game ` America 's Army', during the Special Forces training lecture and test, one of the user 's classmates is doing the `` Charge '' trick as he listens to the lecture. \ n In the music video, `` Your Smile '' by F.I.R, Faye is seen performing Twisted Sonic.
David Letterman is known to spin his pen while sitting at his desk during the Late Show with David Letterman. \ n Female Singer Kim Taeyeon -LRB- Girls' Generation -RRB- is often seen spinning Charge during MBC Chin Chin Bora -LRB- Viewable Radio -RRB- as a DJ.
These inmates were not necessarily civilians, but could include former soldiers or officers sentenced to labor camps for various infractions.Lebed 1997 : In 1937, General Lebed 's father, a Red Army officer, was stripped of his rank and given a five-year sentence in a labor camp for twice reporting late for duty - five minutes late, to be exact.
A major penalty is a stronger degree of penalty for a more severe infraction of the rules than a minor.
Most penalties which incur a major are more severe instances of minor penalty infractions ; the exception is fighting which always draws a major.
A player who receives a major penalty will remain off the ice for five minutes of play during which his team will be short-handed.
A major penalty will not end if a goal is scored against the short-handed team.
When a team has a player serving a 2-minute penalty, and an overall disadvantage in the number of players on the ice, the opposing team is said to be on a power play.
If they score during that time, the time remaining in that particular penalty is discarded and the player may return to the ice if that player has a 2-minute minor penalty.
No time is subtracted for a goal on a 5-minute major penalty.
Goaltenders never go to the penalty box, even though they are assessed penalty minutes, and would either have their penalty time served by proxy, usually being taken by the team captain, or face a penalty shot in the case of a 5-minute major penalty.
Both shooters and goalies commonly consult their teammates and coaches for advice on the opposing player 's style of play.
Shooters often consider the goalie 's strengths and weaknesses -LRB- such as a fast glove or stick save -RRB-, preferred goaltending style -LRB- such as butterfly or stand-up -RRB- and method of challenging the shooter.
Goaltenders often consider the shooter 's shot preference, expected angle of attack, a patented move a shooter commonly uses and even handedness of the shooter.
No. 10 delays were normally issued in a tin of 5, all of the same delay, while L-delays were issued in a larger tin which included a mixture of different delays to suit a variety of operations.
However, plastic explosives -LRB- which did not require a booster -RRB- were particularly useful during the sabotage missions in which they were often employed.
If kept in a community aquarium, the best tankmates are other species of ` Nannostomus,' small peaceful characins and corydoras.
If kept in a thickly planted single-species aquarium with the above water parameters, most species will spawn, eggs will not be eaten, and the fry will be found among the floating plants.
Baby brine shrimp, live or frozen, and other small-sized foods are required for both fry and adults.
` Nannostomus' are also avid biofilm grazers and, for most of the species, algae is an under-reported staple of their diet.
In most species the males will establish small territories and defend them.
Their defensive actions are usually harmless but, in two species, ` N. mortenthaleri' and ` N. trifasciatus', antagonistic behavior directed at conspecifics can have deleterious results if sufficient space and plant cover are not provided.
Once acclimated to the aquarium, and provided with conditions to their liking, ` Nannostomus' are hardy and have a firm grasp on life, often living for five or more years.
It was found impossible to obtain a building in which to hold our convention, and our friends, Dr. Fussell and others, erected a platform in the woods, where quite a large audience assembled.
They tore down the platform on which we stood, assaulted Mr. White and knocking out several of his teeth, dealt a heavy blow on William A. White, striking him on the back part of the head, badly cutting his scalp and felling him to the ground.
Leaving me thus, with my right hand broken, and in a state of unconsciousness, the mobocrats hastily mounted their horses and rode to Andersonville, where most of them resided.
Issues related to the removal of the penis appear in psychology, for example in the condition known as castration anxiety.
People with penetrating abdominal trauma may have signs of hypovolemic shock -LRB- insufficient blood in the circulatory system -RRB- and peritonitis -LRB- an inflammation of the peritoneum, the membrane that lines the abdominal cavity -RRB-.
Penetration may abolish or diminish bowel sounds due to bleeding, infection, and irritation, and injuries to arteries may cause bruits -LRB- a distinctive sound similar to heart murmurs -RRB- to be audible.
Percussion of the abdomen may reveal hyperresonance -LRB- indicating air in the abdominal cavity -RRB- or dullness -LRB- indicating a buildup of blood -RRB-.
The abdomen may be distended or tender, signs which indicate an urgent need for surgery.
The line opened in 1941 to service various World War II armaments factories at Penfield.
During the war years this branch line was used by many passenger trains carrying workers to the munitions factories in the area.
This was necessary because Salisbury was still a semi-rural community at the time and most of the workforce had to be brought in from other districts.
Penguins are popular around the world, primarily for their unusually upright, waddling gait and -LRB- compared to other birds -RRB- lack of fear of humans.
Their striking black-and-white plumage is often likened to a tuxedo suit.
This is incorrect, as there are almost no wild penguins in the northern hemisphere, except the small group on the northernmost of the Galápagos.
Another famous tune featured in ` Malcolm', along with other films, is `` Music For A Found Harmonium '', which Jeffes wrote on a harmonium that he had found dumped in a back street in Kyoto, where he was staying in the summer of 1982 after the ensemble 's first tour of Japan.
Flexible compression rings, commonly called cock rings, can be added.
In the best circumstances erections can be maintained for a considerable time, but manufacturers' literature recommends that, for safety, rings should be removed after no more than 30 minutes.
The locomotive was class 23 No. 188, a six coupled locomotive, which although usually to be found on goods workings, was regularly used on excursion traffic.
The locomotive crew stood by their posts and applied the brakes, the coaches following the locomotive into the ` six-foot' ripping up some 25 yards of track ; the tender capsized and became entangled in signal wires, the locomotive dug in the ballast and the front coach totally smashed.
`` Recidivism was always possible, and the commutation of sentence by payment of cash perpetuated the notion that salvation could be bought '' -LRB- Rouche 1987, p. 529 -RRB-.
The system of commutations espoused in the penitentials could not reach the poorest, for whom a few solidi was a fortune and the possibility of some meat in the diet an essential source of calories.
Nor were commutations restricted to financial payments : extreme fasts and recitation of large numbers of psalms could also commute penances ; the system of commutation did not reinforce commonplace connections between poverty and sinfulness, even though it favored people of means and education over those without such advantages.
Modern toponymists have become convinced that the hill in question was more likely a tumulus - prominent in pre-Roman and Roman times, and perhaps much later.
This was a tumulus at Rowley Hill Farm, Ordnance Survey reference GR90251180, approximately, which was still prominent in the 18th century and still discernible in the early 20th.
It would have directly overlooked the outlying Roman camp, across the Penk and just north of Pennocrucium on Watling Street, the remains of which are clearly visible in satellite photographs.
The Rowley Hill tumulus is well-documented, and was clearly an extremely important landmark for several millennia.
Another site of approximately was purchased in the Keilor Park area in 2006 to be developed as sporting grounds.
In the past decade, no political party has been clearly dominant in Pennsylvania.
Id'. In Pennsylvania, a peace officer may arrest a person, without warrant, if a crime is committed in their presence.'.
For example, if a constable observes a public brawl, then the constable may arrest the participants for breaching the peace.
Constables' `` arrest on view '' authority does ` not' empower them to make arrests after the fact for crimes they did not observe directly, nor to arrest on probable cause.
However, according to Pennsylvania common law, a citizen may also have the same power of arrest, but is not given the shrowd of authority a constable is given.
Divisions of the force are called `` troops, '' and officers are known as `` troopers '' a title usually reserved for members of the United States Cavalry, and reminiscent of the early beginnings of the department when officers patrolled on horseback.
A senior member of the Paratime Police refers to the PSP as `` one of the ten best constabulary organizations in the world.
`` A company 's web site may feature a glowing press release about its financial health or some new product or innovation.
Newsletters that purport to offer unbiased recommendations may suddenly tout the company as the latest `` hot '' stock.
Messages in chat rooms and bulletin board postings may urge you to buy the stock quickly or to sell before the price goes down.
Or you may even hear the company mentioned by a radio or TV analyst.
It has been traditionally employed and reportedly successful as an emmenagogue -LRB- menstrual flow stimulant -RRB- or as an abortifacient.
Today, although surrounded by a commercial woodland owned by Lowther Estates, the hill still contains some natural woodlands and is a popular local and tourist attraction.
On a clear day the majority of the Eden Valley, the local fells, Pennines and parts of the North Lakes can be seen.
Later in the century the patronage came to be shared between Basset and the Duke of Leeds, though in the last years before Reform Basset 's son -LRB- who became Lord de Dunstanville -RRB- was allowed to exercise patronage alone on the understanding that he did not interfere in the Duke 's other Cornish borough, Helston.
Elections were generally contested, and the outcome was often a sharing of the representation with one Whig and one Tory returned.
In 1828, two years before the first attempt to pass a general Reform Act, the Whigs picked Penryn as a suitable case for an attempt at more limited reform after an election where voters were reportedly treated to a `` breakfast '' worth 24 guineas a head ; they proposed a bill in the House of Commons to disfranchise Penryn and transfer its two seats to Manchester, but as there was at this point a Tory majority opposed to Reform the proposal was defeated.
There is also a moderately sized gothic and Industrial scene in the greater Pensacola Area with events such as ` Freaky Fridaze' held monthly at ` Bedlam', a popular nightclub in the downtown area.
There has also been a recent growth in the hardcore metal scene in Pensacola, and shows of this genre are often held at the local American Legion post and the now-closed Red Door Venue, a Christian-based show space.
In such plans, the employee is responsible, to one degree or another, for selecting the types of investments toward which the funds in the retirement plan are allocated.
In exchange, the funds in such plans may not be withdrawn by the investor prior to reaching a certain age -- typically the year the employee reaches 59.5 years old -- -LRB- with a small number of exceptions -RRB- without incurring a substantial penalty.
The Australian Federal Government has acknowledged that the number of people receiving the pension will outnumber the number of people in the workforce funding the pension by the end of the next decade.
Immigration policies have been modified to encourage young people to come to Australia.
Those who are nearing the age of 65 have also been encouraged to not retire but keep working for as long as possible well into their 70s.
The stems are typically simple or branching in the lower half of plant, and they are erect, generally flexible, and of green to reddish color.
This genus has green phyllaries in two to three generally equal series, lanceolate to obovate, with margins widely scarious, and a naked receptacle.
The white, yellow or red corolla may be simplified to a tube.
Fruits are 1.5 to 3.0 millimeters in diameter and are generally compressed in an oblong-fusiform shape and are typically covered with small hairs.
Assigning precise frequency proportions to the pentatonic scales of most cultures is problematic.
Specially trained musicians among the Gogo people of Tanzania sing the fourth through ninth -LRB- and occasionally tenth -RRB- harmonics above a fundamental, which do necessarily accurately correspond to the frequency proportions 4:5:6:7:8:9, but this is not a scale in the western sense because these pitches are not found within a single octave and could not be put into a single octave with this manner of performance.
Within classical Pentecostalism there are three major orientations : Wesleyan-Holiness, Higher Life, and Oneness.
The International Church of the Foursquare Gospel is an example of the Higher Life branch, while the Assemblies of God -LRB- AG -RRB- was influenced by both groups.
Pentecostalism claims more than 250 million adherents worldwide.
Probably this was a bust of Napoleon 's son, who was known as the King of Rome.
The presumption is that this was overpainted with the curtain after the fall of Napoleon, either by Ingres himself, or another artist.The National Gallery, Complete Illustrated Catalogue, National Gallery Publications, 1995, ISBN 185709050 The bust can just be made out in the enlarged online photo, with its chin level with the sitter 's hair-line ; the top of the column was level with the middle of the sitter 's ear.
These may always have been -LRB- just -RRB- visible, or have become so by the paint becoming transparent with age.
Penuche often has a tannish color to it and is lighter than regular fudge.
Nuts, especially pecans, are often added to penuche for texture, especially in the making of penuche candies.
One of them, Marcusson, is a positive thinker who believes that people are alike all over, even on the Red Planet.
The other astronaut, Conrad, has a more cynical view of human interplanetary nature.
People ` are' alike ... people are alike everywhere ! ''.
The People Capability Maturity Model -LRB- People CMM -RRB- is a framework that helps organizations successfully address their critical people issues.
Based on the best current practices in fields such as human resources, knowledge management, and organizational development, the People CMM guides organizations in improving their processes for managing and developing their workforces.
An earring in the left ear, a left pants leg rolled up, and a cap tilted to the left may all indicate affiliation to the alliance.
The People Nation alliance in most instances utilizes a five-pointed star in their gang graffiti.The five-pointed star has its origins with the Black Stone Rangers/Black P. Stone Ranger Nation, one of the larger street gangs.
Marcos also ordered the immediate arrest of his political opponents and critics.
With practically all of his political opponents arrested and in exile, Marcos' pre-emptive declaration of martial law in 1972, and the ratification of his new constitution through political coercion, enabled him to effectively legitimize his government and hold on to power for another 14 years beyond his first two terms as president.
The other characters think, correctly, that Laurey -LRB- Joan Roberts -RRB- and Curly -LRB- Alfred Drake -RRB- are in love.
In this song they warn each other not to behave indiscreetly, lest people misinterpret their intentions.
Neither wants to admit to the other - or themselves - his or her true feelings.
At the end of the musical the characters reprise the number after becoming engaged, saying `` Let people say we 're in love. ''.
The Geiringers lived on the opposite side of Merwedeplein, the square where the Frank 's apartment was located, and Eva and Anne were almost exactly the same age.
Though they did know each other on a first-name basis, Eva and Anne were not especially close, as they had different groups of friends aside from Sanne Ledermann.
Her brother Heinz was called up for deportation to labor camp on the same day as Margot Frank, and the Geiringers went into hiding at the same time the Franks did, though the Geiringer family split into two groups to do so - Eva and her mother, and Heinz and his father.
Rod Coronado, a former ALF activist, received $ 64,000 from PETA, and two months later another $ 38,240, as a loan to fund his legal defense, when he was convicted of having set fire to a Michigan State University research lab in 1992.
PETA claimed a tax refund from the Internal Revenue Service for the donation after the arson took place., Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, accessed June 20, 2006.
Erwin clearly is not keen to go - he simply comments that Greta Garbo is showing until the following Tuesday.
At the end of the day, Erwin returns home to find Annie moping about - she seems to spend most of her time lying on the bed in a fairly threadbare apartment.
The couple start to get ready to go to the cinema, but they continually bicker with each other.
The first row is over the pictures of movie stars in their bathroom - it is clear that all the actors are there for Annie 's benefit, while the actresses are there for Erwin, because they punish each other by tearing up each other 's photos.
Human trafficking differs from people smuggling.
A people smuggler will facilitate illegal entry into a country for a fee, but on arrival at their destination, the smuggled person is usually free.
Trafficking involves a process of using physical force, fraud or deception to obtain and transport people.
Women, who form the majority of trafficking victims, are particularly at risk from criminals who exploit lack of opportunities, promise good jobs or opportunities for study, and then force the victims to be prostitutes.
She often brought Jason along to her work.
Jason claimed Jackson touched his crotch twice over his shorts, and once touched his testicles from under his shorts, on each of these three occasions for a few minutes during a tickling game.
On the first two occasions he claimed to have received $ 100 each for not telling his mother, Blanca Francia.
She did not see sexual activity, just an occasion where Jackson and Jason were lying together partly on, partly in a sleeping bag.Blanca Francia received $ 20,000 for a TV interview, which Jason claimed to have no knowledge of the amount.
But there has to be another means for finding common ground.
But a new dispensation pushed on the people of this country will not be sustainable.
In the long term, the will of the people will prevail.
Morning exercises are a common activity and often one can find the elderly practicing qigong and tai chi chuan in parks or students doing stretches on school campuses.
Young people are especially keen on basketball, especially in urban centers with limited space and grass areas.
Along with other armed factions, the Khmer Rouge launched a relentless military campaign against the newly-established People 's Republic of Kampuchea state from the refugee camps and from hidden military outposts along the Thai border.
Even though the Khmer Rouge was dominant, the non-communist resistance included a number of groups which had formerly been fighting against the Khmer Rouge after 1975.
These groups includied Lon Nol-era soldiers -- - coalesced in 1979-80 to form the Khmer People 's National Liberation Armed Forces -LRB- KPNLAF -RRB- -- which pledged loyalty to former Prime Minister Son Sann, and Moulinaka -LRB- Mouvement pour la Libération Nationale du Kampuchea -RRB-, loyal to Prince Norodom Sihanouk.
Fraught with both internal and mutual discord, the non-communist groups opposing the PRK, were never very effective, so that all through the civil war against the KPRAF/CPAF the only seriously organized fighting force against the state was the former Khmer Rouge militia, ironically labelled as the `` Resistance ''.
During battles, western forces were usually incapable of correctly estimating the strength of PVA forces, often, they greatly exaggerated the number of attacking PVAs, such as taking a PVA regiment as a PVA division.
Moreover, PVAs were masters of infiltration, they often sneaked in and attacked directly on command posts, generating shock and chaos.
At various stages of the Korean war, PVA never had a commanding numerical superiority against UN forces, in fact, during the 4th campaign, it was greatly outnumbered by UN -LRB- it was always outgunned -RRB-, yet it could still outmaneuver UN forces and even managed to counter attack at X Corps.
In March of 2009, Peoria 's Superintendent announced that up to 900 teachers may lose their positions in the district.
In addition, teachers that are eligible for retirement or those who have retired already and are working under contract may be next on the chopping block.
`` We are preparing for the worst, but hoping for the very best, '' said Dr. Denton Santarelli, the Peoria Unified School District superintendent.
Often members of a pep band are a subset of people from a larger ensemble such as a marching band or a concert band.
Pep bands are generally associated with performing at pep rallies and sporting events -LRB- usually football, basketball or hockey -RRB-.
With a few exceptions, pep bands are exclusive to the collegiate and high school level.
The typical instrumentation of a pep band is the same as most marching bands, using mainly woodwind, brass, and percussion instruments.
Although pep flags has been around for many decades -LRB- and has evolved much since then -RRB-, it has been gaining more and more popularity.
This particular style of pep flags has spanned out to other areas in Northern California and Nevada and has been known to have similar styles in Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Massachusetts, Ohio and Wisconsin.
Twirling has also reached other countries such as Australia, Canada, Japan, South America, St. Kitts and the United Kingdom.
Depending on the U.S. region or part of the world, pep flags may be classified with baton -LRB- flag baton -RRB-, majorettes or precision/prop. Usually, pep flags is often associated with cheerleading, as it is one of the main subdivisions of the spirit world : cheerleading, songleading/pom pom, mascots and ` pep flags' -RRB-.
However, much like other auxiliary and spirit teams, Pep Flags takes much hand and eye coordination, athleticism, showmanship and overall teamwork and good sportmanship.
At a pep rally, cheerleaders will often lead in boisterous chants intended to get the student body involved and supporting the school 's team.
Games between competing classes with small prizes may be held.
The school 's band will often play upbeat music in between demonstrations, and the drumline may play.
In the case of a Homecoming game, the Homecoming `` court '' may be chosen and announced.
The product remained unavailable in the United States until only recently -LRB- The U.S is PepsiCo 's native market, and the largest consumer of carbonated soft drinks -RRB-, where one of its principal ingredients had not yet been approved by the Food and Drug Administration.
The ingredient in question-acesulfame potassium-is combined with aspartame to provide the beverage 's sweetness.
The results are statistically analyzed to find the best match.
Additionally most PMF algorithms assume that the peptides come from a single protein.
Mixtures exceeding a number of 2-3 proteins typically require the additional use of MS/MS based protein identification to achieve sufficient specificity of identification -LRB- 6 -RRB-.
In 1986, he moved to Bandyallsvenskan side Falu BS, where he spent two seasons, followed by another two at IFK Vänersborg.
During his time with Västeras SK Bandy, Fosshaug made the majority of his national team appearances.
As artists it is our prime responsibility to fight for the right to retain and enjoy this liberty for ourselves and others.
Humanity will always be engaged in a battle to safeguard this freedom and maybe that is also a good definition of what an artist is -- a confident defender of the aspects of the soul that can not be defended any other way.
Economic activity that does not result in monetary income, such as services provided within the family, or for barter, are usually not counted.
Per capita income gives no indication of the distribution of that income within the country, so a small wealthy class can increase the measured per-capita income far above that of the majority of the population.
As for the per capita income of the majority of the population, using the median income or Amartya Sen 's welfare function is the more appropriate approach.
The building drew an estimated one million visitors over the next several years and was purchased by an Ohio Catholic revivalism group.
A local chemist examined the windows and suggested the stain was produced by water deposits combined with weathering, yielding a chemical reaction like that often seen on old bottles, perhaps due to the action of the water sprinkler.
Higher level control systems may seek perceptions that do n't produce the conflict.
If the conflict persists, the `` problem solving '' by higher systems comes to awareness, and if it fails the reorganisation system may find new systems that bypass the conflict or may construct new reference signals -LRB- goals -RRB- that are not in conflict.
New perceptual constructs and new means of controlling the perceptions involved may also result from reorganization.
After acting for a short period as curate to Bishop Stretch at Newcastle, New South Wales, he was given the difficult parish of Stockton, New South Wales on the other side of the harbour, then much overloaded with debt.
In December 1903 at West Maitland against Plum Warner 's English eleven which included such well-known bowlers as Hurst, Len Braund, Ted Arnold, Bernard Bosanquet and Fielder, he made 93 and 102.
They are often used in jazz or blues music.
The bristles can be made of metal or plastic ; handles are commonly made of wood or aluminum, and are often coated with rubber.
The non-bristled end of the brush may end in a loop or a ball.
He also taught public speaking and drama, and was known as a `` public reciter ''.
As of the mid 1920s, Burrell had developed a nationwide reputation for his work, having had 75,000 participants in his productions, which had collectively been performed in front of over 900,000 people.
On succeeding his brother as ` Viscount Strangford' in 1857 he continued to live in Constantinople, immersed in cultural studies.
That chapter was entitled `` Chaos, '' and was the first of his writings which made him widely known amongst careful students of foreign politics.
There are over 700 recognized species and subspecies of ` Perdita', plus some 200 more as yet unnamed.
` Perdita' are usually quite small -LRB- 2.0 mm to 10.0 mm -RRB- and often brightly colored with metallic reflections and/or yellow or white markings.
The genus was extensively treated by P.H. Timberlake who, in addition to T.D.A. Cockerell, described most of the known species.
Like most Slavophiles, Chernyshevsky was a liberal and ardently supported the emancipation of serfs, which was finally realized in emancipation reform of 1861.
They founded a new artistic code that was based on social and political critique, as opposed to the pure aestheticism, and interpreted Chernyshevsky 's ideas by laying an emphasis on the subject matter of their works, justifying -LRB- like their friends and contemporaries Feodor Dostoevsky, Leo Tolstoy, Ivan Turgenev, and others -RRB- their activity by the attempt to make their art useful to society, and rejecting the `` art for art 's sake '' philosophy of concurrent academic tradition.
On' 50/50 Love,' the two voices, to quote one of the many clichés the song spouts, ` go together hand in glove,' with Gill scatting and growling to rival Al Jarreau, and Lattisaw purring and swooping.
But most of this record is given over to competent, if tedious, Shalamar-style electropop. ''.
A ` perfect game' is the best score possible in a game of bowling, achieved by rolling a strike during every frame.
In bowling games that use 10 pins, such as Ten-pin bowling, Candlepin bowling, and Duckpin bowling, the highest possible score is 300, achieved by bowling 12 strikes in a row in a single game : one strike in each of the first nine frames, and three more in the tenth frame.
Because a strike counts as ten points plus any pinfall in the next two balls, 30 points are possible in a given frame.
In Five-pin bowling, the highest possible score is 450, as a strike is worth 15 points.
That is, assuming that all agents are rational and have perfect information, they will choose the best products, and the market will reward those who make the best products with higher sales.
Perfect information would practically mean that all consumers know all things, about all products, at all times, and therefore always make the best decision regarding purchase.
In competitive markets, unlike game-theoretic models, perfect competition does not require that agents have complete knowledge about the actions of others ; all relevant information is reflected in prices.
Postage stamps are one common application of this, where small round holes are cut in lines to create individual pieces -LRB- see postage stamp separation -RRB-.
Perforations on stamps are rather large, on the order of a millimeter, in comparison other perforated materials often have smaller holes.
It is common for notebooks and legal pads to have perforations making it easier to tear out individual pages.
These will describe the overall system load over a specified time period, defining how many of each type of business transaction will be executed per unit of time.
For example : 1200 of transaction A, 300 of transaction B, 3300 of transaction C, etc. for a given business day ; then in hour 1 so many executions of A, B, C etc., in hour 2 so many transaction executions, and so on.
The information is often formatted in a tabular form for clarity.
Finally, the transactions may be classified as to general type, normally being user interaction, report generation, and batch processing.
If your manager got a group of people to testify against you, by disputing the PIP, you will make it a heavy burden for them for this wasted effort.
The perception of these people will be that they are not supportive in the company and are very petty.
The people who defend you will show that they are good for the company by being supportive and honest.
If I was a CEO of a company, I would keep supportive and positive people around than people who help bury someone with a PIP.
Her spoken vocals have come as close to singing as possible without really singing.
The other type of performance poetry Gorski practiced is without music and tied to conceptual art, but that was at appearances in smaller venues that could not accommodate her band.
When performative utterances are explicit, then they are usually in the first person present tense.
These categories are not exclusive, so an utterance may well have both qualities.
` Performative writing' is a form of post-modernist or avant-garde academic writing, usually taking as its subject a work of visual art or performance art.
It is often loosely semi-autobiographical, free-flowing in an ersatz stream-of-consciousness mode, and heavily informed by left-wing critical theory, but arises ultimately from linguistic ideas around performative utterances.
The sudden arrival of the 1960s underground movement into the mainstream in the early 1970s changed Australian music permanently : Skyhooks were far from the first people to write songs in Australia, by Australians, about Australia, but they ` were' the first ones ever to make money doing it.
Within a few years, the novelty had worn off and it became commonplace to hear distinctively Australian lyrics and sometimes sounds side-by-side with the imitators and the imports.
By using a slightly hydrophilic compound such as ethanol, most of the fragrant compounds from the waxy source materials can be extracted without dissolving any of the fragrantless waxy molecules.
Absolutes are usually found in the form of an oily liquid.
Concretes usually contain a large amount of wax due to the ease in which the solvents dissolve various hydrophobic compounds.
As such concretes are usually further purified through distillation or ethanol based solvent extraction.
Perianal gland tumors are located most commonly in the skin around the anus, but can also be found on the tail or groin.
Adenomas and adenocarcinomas look alike, both being round, pink and usually less than three centimeters in width.
Adenocarcinomas are more likely to be multiple and invasive into the underlying tissue, and they can metastasize to the lymph nodes, liver, and lungs.
Agariste was the great-granddaughter of the tyrant of Sicyon, Cleisthenes, and the niece of the supreme Athenian reformer Cleisthenes, another Alcmaeonid.
According to Herodotus and Plutarch, Agariste dreamed, a few nights before Pericles' birth, that she had borne a lion.Herodotus, VI,. Plutarch, ` Pericles', III.
-LRB- Although Plutarch claims that this deformity was the reason that Pericles was always depicted wearing a helmet, this is not the case ; the helmet was actually the symbol of his official rank as strategos -LRB- general -RRB- -RRB-. L..
Oceanic plates consist of up to about 100 km of peridotite covered by a thin crust ; the crust, commonly about 6 km thick, consists of basalt, gabbro, and minor sediments.
Oceanic plates are usually subducted back into the mantle in subduction zones.
However, pieces can be emplaced into or overthrust on continental crust by a process called obduction, rather than carried down into the mantle ; the emplacement may occur during orogenies, as during collisions of one continent with another or with an island arc.
Among the rocks that commonly include peridotite xenoliths are basalt and kimberlite.
After a bond breaks, it no longer sustains any force, and the endpoints are effectively disconnected from each other.
When a bond breaks, the force it was carrying is redistributed to other bonds that have not yet broken.
The ` Times Literary Supplement' of April 14, 1932 stated that the `` actual solution is quite unusually ingenious, and well up to the standard of Mrs. Christie 's best stories.
But the plot is arranged with almost mathematical neatness, and that is all that one wants. '''.
In a box that is too small, a macromolecule may interact with its own image in a neighboring box, which is functionally equivalent to a molecule 's `` head '' interacting with its own `` tail ''.
This produces highly unphysical dynamics in most macromolecules, although the magnitude of the consequences and thus the appropriate box size relative to the size of the macromolecules depends on the intended length of the simulation, the desired accuracy, and the anticipated dynamics.
For example, simulations of protein folding that begin from the native state may undergo smaller fluctuations and therefore may not require as large a box as simulations that begin from a random coil conformation.
A common recommendation based on simulations of DNA is to require at least 1 nm of solvent around the molecules of interest in every dimension.de Souza ON, Ornstein RL. -LRB- 1997 -RRB-.
The idea that the Middle Ages was a `` middle '' phase between two other large scale periodizing concepts, Ancient and Modern, still persists.
The term `` Middle Ages '' and especially the adjective ` medieval' can also have a negative ring in colloquial use -LRB- `` the barbaric treatment of prisoners in such-and-such a prison is almost medieval '' -RRB- but this does not carry over into academic terminology.
The Draconis Combine objected to the marriage as an obvious ploy by the Federated Commonwealth to subsume the Periphery realm, and the Kurita ambassador refused to believe any other explanation of the partnership.
What little internal resistance existed to Avellar 's rule polarized around this issue, and the Outworlds Alliance remained on cool terms with House Kurita for many years.
Warbeck first claimed the English throne at the court of Burgundy in 1490.
In 1491, he landed in Ireland in the hope of gaining support for his claim as Lambert Simnel had four years previously.
Warbeck was also welcomed by various other monarchs ; in 1493, he attended the funeral of Frederick III, Holy Roman Emperor in Vienna, where he was recognised as King Richard IV of England, at the invitation of Frederick III 's son Maximilian I.Wroe, pp. 148-151.
Warbeck also promised that if he died before becoming king, his ` claim' would fall to Maximilian.
During the PCRE 7.x and Perl 5.9.x -LRB- development track -RRB- phase the two projects have coordinated development and are to the extent possible feature equivalent.
In this kind of setting the expression of ECM genes has the potential to more closely resemble that of the native expression profile. 3D scaffolds, the structures on which the cultured cells grow, can be composed of other cells, i.e. cocultures, synthetic polymers mimicking the cells natural environment or purified ECM such as matrigel, and any mixture of these three components.One such system has been developed to study skin development and basal membrane formation between keratinocytes and the stroma.
Another procedure that could be made possible by tissue engineering is keratoepithelioplasty.
The Perlodidae are generally lotic and lentic erosional.
They are most often found in cool, clear streams with rocky bottoms.
They are found under rocks and also in coarse particulate organic matter -LRB- CPOM -RRB- where there are many prey to be found.
A mature ecosystem such as ancient woodland has a huge number of relationships between its component parts : trees, understory, ground cover, soil, fungi, insects and other animals.
The productivity of such a forest, in terms of how much new growth it produces, exceeds that of the most productive wheat field.
It is in this observation -- of how much more productive a wood may be on far less fertilizer input -- that the potential productivity of a permaculture design is modelled.
The many connections in a wood contribute together to a proliferation of opportunities for amplifier feedbacks to evolve that in turn maximise energy flow through the system.
Thus, if the mean annual air temperature is only slightly below 0 ° C -LRB- 32 ° F -RRB-, permafrost will form only in spots that are sheltered - usually with a northerly aspect.
This creates what is known as ` discontinuous permafrost'.
In the moist-wintered areas mentioned before, there may not be even discontinuous permafrost down to -2 ° C..
Discontinuous permafrost is often further divided into ` extensive discontinuous permafrost', where permafrost covers between 50 and 90 percent of the landscape and is usually found in areas with mean annual temperatures between -2 ° and -4 ° C -LRB- 28 ° and 25 ° F -RRB-, and ` sporadic permafrost', where permafrost cover is less than 50 percent of the landscape and typically occurs at mean annual temperatures between 0 ° and -2 ° C -LRB- 32 ° and 28 ° F -RRB-.
Permanent makeup is a welcome enhancement for most recipients.
The 4 most common complaints are `` too dark, '' `` wrong color, '' `` uneven '' and `` too big. ''.
A skilled, experienced, permanent makeup professional is able to adjust the color and evenness of permanent makeup results in most cases.
Costly pigment lightening techniques and/or removal may be the only solutions.
Lawful Permanent Residents may submit their applications for naturalization as much as 90 days before meeting the residency requirement.
Permanent residents who reside in the US must pay taxes on their worldwide income, like U.S. citizens.
In addition to their wages, they often receive benefits like subsidized health care, paid vacations, holidays, sick time, or contributions to a retirement plan.
Regular employees are often eligible to switch job positions within their companies.
Even when employment is `` at will, '' regular employees of large outfits are generally protected from abrupt job termination by severance policies, like advance notice in case of layoffs, or formal discipline procedures.
They may be eligible to join a union, and may enjoy both social and financial benefits of their employment.
Pern 's currency is known as the ` Mark'.
Marks are circulated in the form of coins made of wood, apparently as a fiat currency -LRB- though, due to Thread, wood has traditionally been a scarce resource during most of Pern 's history -RRB-, whose value is set by a meeting of the political and economic leaders of the planet, apparently as a command economy.
The coins occur in the denominations,,, 1, 1, 1, 2, 5, and 10 marks, with a few 100-mark coins for very large transactions.
The main educational installations of the state are concentrated in the capital, including the seventh best federal university of the country.
Castro Alves and Joaquim Nabuco, two important people in Brazilian history, studied there.
Others important institutions are : \ n Universidade Federal de Pernambuco -LRB- UFPE -RRB- -LRB- Federal University of Pernambuco -RRB- ; \ n Universidade Católica de Pernambuco -LRB- Unicap -RRB- -LRB- Catholic University of Pernambuco -RRB- ; \ n Universidade de Pernambuco -LRB- UPE -RRB- -LRB- University of Pernambuco -RRB- ; \ n Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco -LRB- UFRPE -RRB- -LRB- Rural Federal University of Pernambuco -RRB- ; \ n Centro Federal de Educaçao Tecnológica de Pernambuco -LRB- Cefet-PE -RRB- ; \ n and many others.
And while this practice usually resulted in convulsions followed by the death of the animal, these tests were flawed and unrepresentative of absinthe consumption.
Despite pleas by absinthe distillers for quality regulations for the category, the enemies of absinthe pushed to ban the popular drink.
Huldrych Zwingli wrote : `` I firmly believe that -LSB- Mary -RSB-, according to the words of the gospel as a pure Virgin brought forth for us the Son of God and in childbirth and after childbirth forever remained a pure, intact Virgin. ''.
John Calvin rejected arguments, based on the mention in Scripture of brothers of Jesus, that Mary had other children.Harmony of Matthew, Mark & Luke, sec. 39 -LRB- Geneva, 1562 -RRB-, / From Calvin 's Commentaries, tr.
No man will obstinately keep up the argument, except from an extreme fondness for disputation. `` -LRB- vol. I, p. 107 -RRB- John Wesley wrote : `` I believe that He was made man, joining the human nature with the divine in one person ; being conceived by the singular operation of the Holy Ghost, and born of the blessed Virgin Mary, who, as well after as before she brought Him forth, continued a pure and unspotted virgin. ''.
Even though perreo is known as a popular dance for reggaeton.
One may also see it in music videos and even in Night Clubs.
In most episodes, the identity of the guilty party was discovered without an actual trial being held.
During this stage, other malefactors -LRB- blackmailers, frauds, forgers, etc. -RRB- were frequently forced into confessions by Perry 's relentless badgering, and the real killer was exposed.
At this point, it is common for the camera to zoom in on the faces of the potentially guilty -LRB- visibly uncomfortable in their seats -RRB- as Perry slowly but surely moves to the climactic identification of the real murderer, who confesses, often to the accompaniment of a kettledrum-laden orchestral score, followed by a fadeout to black, symbolizing the defeat and oblivion meted out by Perry Mason.
In the closing scene, the characters often gather together to discuss how the case was solved.
From an early age he demonstrated the talent and discipline necessary to endure the rigorous training in martial arts often taught only in monasteries.
While many victims of these persecutions did not, in fact, have any connection to those regimes, cooperation between German minority organisations and Nazi regime did occur, as the example of Selbstschutz shows, which is still used as a pretense of hostilities against those who did not take part in such organisations.
In other cases -LRB- e.g. in the case of the formerly large German-speaking populations of Russia, Estonia, or the Transylvanian -LRB- Siebenbürgen -RRB- German minority in Rumania and the Balkans -RRB- such persecution was a crime committed against innocent communities who had played no part in the Third Reich.
These organizations, often referred to collectively under the name of their umbrella organization, the Sangh Parivar, and local media were involved in promoting anti-Christian propaganda in Gujarat.
The growing Islamization in Malaysia is a cause for concern to many Malaysians who follow minority religions such as Hinduism.,.
Whilst `` Paganism, with Theodosius dies, never to rise again '', according to a Christian historian committed pagans continued, wherever possible, to practice their faith discreetly or under cloak of common festivals and by keeping within the letter of the law if not its spirit, Edward Gibbon, `` The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire '', ch28. more commonly in the countryside, hence they are called `` rustics - the pagani ''. Upon the death of Theodosius, in 395, the Empire was divided between his two incompetent sons.
Political crisis ensued ; over the next several decades, the defence of the Empire gradually collapsed.
The fact that they had to keep repeating their threats by the enactment of numerous laws against the practice of Paganism indicates that their efforts did not succeed in stamping out the old religion, which continued to be practiced discreetly.Theodosian Code 16.5.41, 16.5.42, 16.5.51, 16,10.15, 16.10.17, 16.10.19 During the early part of the reign of Honorius, Stilicho was able to exercise unlimited power over the west.
Both lie at distances of more than 7,000 ly and are separated by several hundred light-years.
M34 : This open cluster with an apparent brightness of 5.5 m lies at a distance of approximately 1,400 ly and consists of about 100 stars that are scattered over an area larger than that of the full moon.
M 34 can be resolved even with good binoculars but is best viewed using a telescope at low magnifications.
Evidence for his or her existence is based on a few references in KGB archives opened -LRB- and later closed -RRB- to researchers in the early 1990s, after the fall of the Soviet Union.
There are also a few references to Perseus in the VENONA decrypts as PERS.
The U.S. State Department has made claims of discrimination against Iranian Jews.
According to its study, Jews may not occupy senior positions in government and are prevented from serving in the judiciary and security services and from becoming public school heads.
The study says that Jewish citizens are permitted to obtain passports and to travel outside the country, but they often are denied the multiple-exit permits normally issued to other citizens.
The Association of Tehrani Jews said in a statement, `` We Iranian Jews condemn claims of the US State Department on Iranian religious minorities, announced that we are fully free to perform our religious duties and we feel no restriction on performing our religious rituals. ''.
Persian nouns mark with an accusative marker only for the specific accusative case ; the other oblique cases are marked by prepositions.
Possession is expressed by special markers : if the possessor appears in the sentence after the thing possessed, the ` ezafe' may be used ; otherwise, alternatively, a pronominal genitive enclitic is employed.
Inanimate nouns pluralize with' - ha', while animate nouns generally pluralize with' - an', although' - ha' is also common.
Special rules exist for some nouns borrowed from Arabic.
There are two people involved in the performance : a musical performer and a person called ` morshed'.
The method of performance, its characters and the techniques used in writing the puppet show make it unique and distinguish it from other types of puppetry.
Puppetry is still very common in Iran.
The simplicity of the basic combination invites variations, either by adding other ingredients or substituting other herbs, e.g. bay leaf, oregano, basil or tarragon for the parsley.
Anchovy is a common addition in Provençal cooking.
A small amount of olive oil is often added to persillade to make it easier to work with.
The pudding is often served with ice cream, creme anglaise, whipped cream, apple sauce, or brandy butter.
It is best served warm, although it can be served cold as well.
Persimmon pudding lasts quite a while when refrigerated, and may be made in large batches to be served over the course of several days.
As the pudding ages the various individual flavors mellow and blend together.
The ` Perso-Parthian bow' is a symmetric recurve composite bow made of ibex horn -LRB- or for low quality bows, ox horn -RRB- ; a variety of wood cores ; gazelle, deer, or ox sinews ; and usually hide glue.
The `` arms '' of the bow are supposed to cross each other.
The finished bow is then covered by bark, fine leather, or in some cases shark skin and laminated to keep out moisture.
The PJB 's LCD has a resolution of 128 × 64 pixels -LRB- 2:1 ratio -RRB- at a diameter of 3 inches -LRB- 7.62 mm -RRB-. Later versions of the PJB also featured a backlit display -LRB- the backlight comes on when the unit is powered on, or a button is pressed and turns off automatically after a few seconds -RRB-.
A major risk to the household in achieving their accumulation goal is the rate of price increases over time, or inflation.
Using net present value calculators, the financial planner will suggest a combination of asset earmarking and regular savings to be invested in a variety of investments.
PHR programs are structured in the same basic way a consumer credit report is structured, in that consumers may obtain a PHR from various sponsoring organizations.
The direct-to-consumer PHRs often require the consumer to pay a fee for registering a new account.
Frequently, these hospital-based PHRs are integrated with other information systems owned by the health care delivery organization such as its EHR or laboratory information systems.
The first sample consists of 1,000 people with similar demographic characteristics -LRB- e.g., age, gender, ethnicity -RRB- to the U.S. Census data.
Comparison with this group helps assess the severity of psychopathology among other patients.
Maslow spent much of his time studying what he called `` self-actualizing persons '', those who are `` fulfilling themselves and doing the best they are capable of doing ''.
Intense concentration on an activity one is involved in, such as running a marathon, may invoke a peak experience. # ` Reality and problem centered' - they have tendency to be concerned with `` problems '' in their surroundings. # ` Acceptance/Spontaneity' - they accept their surroundings and what can not be changed. # ` Unhostile sense of humor/democratic' - they do not like joking about others, which can be viewed as offensive.
Furthermore, because personality test scores usually fall on a bell curve rather than in distinct categories, Bess, T.L. & Harvey, R.J. -LRB- 2001 -RRB-.
Currently, much of medical practice is based on standards of care based on epidemiologic studies of large cohorts.
Recent developments in a number of molecular profiling technologies, including proteomic profiling, metabolomic analysis, and genomic/genetic testing allow the development of `` Personalized Medicine '' and Predictive Medicine, which is the combination of comprehensive molecular testing with proactive, personalized preventive medicine.
The attacking 5-3-2, which saw almost as many goals conceded as scored, was replaced with a 4-4-2.
After scraping through in the second leg of the major semi final against Newcastle, Glory faced Sydney Olympic in the grand final at a sold out Subiaco Oval.
In the 1900s, due to the construction of the Panama Canal, the port of Callao was no longer flooded with the several foreign sailors and travelers that had at one point made the port a center of cultural diffusion.
By then, football clubs and leagues had sprouted in other Peruvian cities, including Lima, Cusco, and Arequipa.
The lack of a centralized organization often led to conflicts between the teams, and one such conflict resulted in the creation of the Peruvian Football Federation in 1922, along with a new Peruvian Football League tournament under the regulation of said organization in 1926.
After the War of Independence the strong position of the Army and the lack of solid political institutions meant that every Peruvian president until 1872 held some military rank.
The consequent lack of military preparedness combined with bad leadership were major causes of Peru 's defeat against Chile in the War of the Pacific -LRB- 1879-1883 -RRB-.
A major turning point in this process was the arrival in 1896 of a French Military Mission contracted by president Nicolás de Piérola.
The other common version is the `` Italian '' style.
Some chefs add a few tablespoons of wine or pisco following the sautee step.
Criminal defense attorney Angelyn Gates of Chase Criminal Defense Attorneys raises concern that citizen groups are not subject to the same standards as trained law enforcement officials.
She notes that laws are designed to keep police officers from violating citizens' rights, and that the same rules do n't apply to citizens who may be violating other citizens' rights.
He does however concede, `` Sometimes it was a fine line, but they provided us with 140 people they were chatting with after 10 days with possibilities of showing up for a meeting.
A pervious concrete pavement may be placed with either fixed forms or slip-form paver.
The most common approachOffenberg, M. 2005.
Strike off may be by vibratory or manual screeds, though vibratory screens are preferable.
Excessive pressure when rolling should be avoided as it may cause the voids to collapse.
Currently peseros travel fixed routes, being able to pick up or drop off passengers anywhere through the route -LRB- a major source of traffic problems and annoyance due to the sudden and unexpected stops -RRB-.
The fees are according to distance traveled : from MXN $ 2.50 for a trip of up to 5 km, MXN $ 3.00 for a 5-to-12 km trip, and MXN $ 4.00 for a trip of 12 km or more -LRB- Prices went up .50 MXN as of august 1st 2008 and are now $ 3.00, $ 3.50 and $ 4.50 MXN respectively. -RRB- Routes usually begin in metro stations and end in outlying neighborhoods of the city or sometimes even in municipalities in Mexico State.
The terminal station of a metro line usually functions as a transport hub and may be served by tens of different pesero routes.
In addition, every major avenue in the city is served by at least one pesero route.
Among their best known song are `` Kasiu Jas Kaniushynu '', `` Belovezhskaya Pushcha '', `` Belorussia '' and `` Alesia ''.
Hormone weed sprays -LRB- e.g. 24-D & 245-T -RRB- may cause grotesque new growth with thin twisted leaves and distorted buds.
Plants may die in severe cases.
Effects of soil borne herbicide may take several years to clear.
Effects of pets on their caregiver 's healthHealth benefits Pets have the ability to stimulate their caregivers, in particular the elderly, giving people someone to take care of, someone to exercise with, and someone to help them heal from a physically or psychologically troubled past.
Polk Library, UW Oshkosh Having a pet may help people achieve health goals, such as lowered blood pressure, or mental goals, such as decreased stress.
In a study of 92 people hospitalized for coronary ailments, within a year 11 of the 29 without pets had died, compared to only 3 of the 52 who had pets.
Dogs which are trained to be guide dogs can help people with disabilities.
Skunks can be infested with roundworms for several weeks before eggs begin to be shed in feces.
It is common for new skunks to have roundworms, which may be too early in development to be detected by fecal tests.
Skunk experts agree that all new skunks need to be treated for roundworms, and that more than one treatment is needed.
They often worked together in anonymous recording gigs and in several joint albums on minor labels.
In particular, Pete almost never showed his extended range in any joint performance with his brother.
Statistics for kicks were imprecise at best during that time, however one accurate statistic was that of a 45 yard drop kick field goal kicked by Henry on December 10, 1922.
However, these claims could not be supported by any varifiable records.
-LRB- It actually made him more popular. -RRB-.
On the other hand, Hoffman 's ` Jeff Cobb' developed a greater range of expression and a more mature level of fine-line photorealism than his Roper.
Like Saunders, he also emphasized characterization in plot development -LRB- ibid -RRB-, and said he never ran out of ideas : the well-written stories were inspired by newspaper articles he read, and characters were often based on real people -LRB- Karlen -RRB-.
Therefore, his role on the show is often limited, though he was prominently featured in the `` B story '' of the episode `` Black Tie. ''.
Pete has appeared on Sky News, Channel 4 's Top 100 Albums, Channel 5 's Top 100 Singles, ITV 's Madonna special, Eggheads for the BBC, Sky One 's Hidden Secrets, Pete & Geoff 's Top 9 's for VH1 and The Royle Family for Granada / BBC - to name but a few.
Pete has written regularly for the Manchester Evening News and often contributes for ` Daily Star'.
A love of alternative music, along with a passion for funk, soul and Motown has led to various high profile appearances as a club DJ.
This was a serious threat to Ryan, Anastasia, and other corrupt officials.
Retrieved Aug. 04, 2008. Albert Anastasia was suspected of ordering the execution but Abe Reles, the chief witness, died in 1941 while supposedly trying to escape from custodies.
The aforementioned `` Reminisce ... '' withstanding, Rock used many jazz samples on his album ` Mecca and The Soul Brother', such as Cannonball Adderley 's `` Country Preacher '', for the song `` Return of the Mecca '', or `` Capricorn '' for the song `` In the House '' from ` The Main Ingredient'.
To introduce feature songs, he often plays a short instrumental excerpt, completely different from the rest of the song.
During the 1970s and early eighties he would perform a ten minute bass solo regardless of the size of the venue, even when playing to a 100,000 people in New York City 's Central Park in 1976.
Singer Grace Slick left the band after her non-appearance caused a riot in Germany in 1978 ; within months drummer John Barbata was severely injured in a car crash and the band 's other singer, Marty Balin, also left.
With Slick gone, Sears' wife Jeanette Sears became one of the principal lyricists, and the pair together wrote some of the band 's best-known songs, such as `` Stranger '', `` Save Your Love '', and `` Winds of Change ''.
He played only bass on the double-platinum 1985 album ` Knee Deep in the Hoopla' but left the group in 1987 due to an intense disagreement over the direction the band 's music had taken over the past several years, especially the decision to have no political or controversial content in the lyrics.
Between 1969 and 1971 Townshend, along with other devotees to Meher Baba, recorded a trio of albums devoted to the yogi 's teachings : ` Happy Birthday',' I Am', and ` With Love'.
In response to bootlegging of these, he compiled his personal highlights -LRB- and `` Evolution '', a collaboration with Ronnie Lane -RRB-, and released his first major-label solo title, 1972 's ` Who Came First'.
This release was followed in 1982 by ` All the Best Cowboys Have Chinese Eyes', which included the popular radio track `` Slit Skirts ''.
Through the rest of the 1980s and early 1990s Townshend would again experiment with the rock opera and related formats, releasing several story-based albums including ` White City : A Novel' -LRB- 1985 -RRB-, ` The Iron Man : A Musical' -LRB- 1989 -RRB-, and ` Psychoderelict' -LRB- 1993 -RRB-. Townshend also got the chance to play with his hero Hank Marvin for Paul McCartney 's `` Rockestra '' sessions, along with other respected rock musicians such as David Gilmour, John Bonham and Ronnie Lane.
Wilson was known as a fiscal conservative who supported the Proposition 13 while Brown opposed it.
The election was expected to be close, with Brown holding a slim lead in most of the polls leading up to Election Day.
Finally, President Ronald Reagan made a number of visits to California late in the race to campaign for Wilson.
His other works include the story collection ` Dark Testament' -LRB- 1942 -RRB- and the novels ` The Path of Thunder' -LRB- 1948 -RRB-,' A Wreath for Udomo' -LRB- 1956 -RRB-,' A Night of Their Own' -LRB- 1965 -RRB-, the Jamaica-set ` This Island Now' -LRB- 1966, the only one of his novels not set in Africa -RRB- and ` The View from Coyaba' -LRB- 1985 -RRB-.
He also wrote ` This Island Now', which speaks to the ways power and money can change most people 's perspectives.
In the 2001 general election he fought the ultra marginal of Wellingborough, where the sitting Labour MP Paul Stinchcombe was holding on with a majority of just 187, having defeated the veteran Tory MP Peter Fry in 1997.
It was another close fight in Wellingborough, and Stinchcombe held on to his seat by 2,355.
However, four years later, in the 2005 general election, Bone ousted Stinchcombe in Wellingborough with a majority of 687 votes.
Breinholt 's live album, `` Live September '', was recorded over three nights at the Sundance Amphitheater in the Utah mountains just a few days after the September 11, 2001 attacks.
On New Year 's Eve 2006, Peter appeared as a featured guest with the Mormon Tabernacle Choir in an event broadcast worldwide.
Although the House of Fabergé is famed for its Imperial Easter Eggs, it made many more objects ranging from silver tableware to fine jewelry.
Additionally, Carl Fabergé was decorated with the most prestigious of French awards -- he was appointed a Knight of the Legion of Honour.
Dr. Peter Chen 's original paper is one of the most cited papers in the computer software field.
See Based on one particular citation database, Chen 's paper is the 35th most cited article in Computer Science.
It is the 4th most downloaded paper from the in January 2005 even though the paper was published 30 years ago.
Recently, according to a survey of 1,000 computer science college professors, Dr. Chen was honored by the selection of his original ER model paper as one of the 38 most influential papers in Computer Science.Laplante, P., ed. ` Great Papers in Computer Science.'.
However, during this time he made some cursory attempts to sell stories, including submission of some Moon Knight plots to Denny O’Neill, but his efforts were unfruitful.Peter David.
Although crossing over from sales into editorial was considered a conflict of interest in the Marvel offices, Owsley, whom David describes as a `` maverick '', was impressed with how David had not previously hesitated to work with him when Owsley was an assistant editor under Larry Hama, and thus, when he became an editor, he purchased a Spider-Man story from David, which appeared in ` Spectacular Spider-Man' # 103 in 1985.
Although David attributes the story 's poor sales to this decision, such crossing over from Sales to Editorial is now common.
Nonetheless, he was fired from ` Spectacular Spider-Man' by Owsley due to editorial pressure by Marvel 's Editor-in-Chief Jim Shooter, and David has commented that the resentment stirred by Owsley 's purchase of his stories may have permanently damaged Owsley 's career.
In 2001, two former students named an ancient frog species, ` Nezpercius dodsoni', after him -LRB- as well as after the Native American Nez Perce people -RRB-. Bradt, Steve -LRB- 2001 -RRB-.
Drucker, Peter F., ` The Practice of Management', p. 378, -LRB- 1954 -RRB- \ n `` The best way to predict the future is to create it.
'' \ n `` Most of what we call management consists of making it difficult for people to get their work done. ''.
Kerry led off in a faster time than he had clocked in the individual event, but it was still two seconds slower than his personal best time of 57.87 s, leaving Australia in fourth place at the end of the first leg.
Evans then swam a personal best of 63.01 s, leaving Australia almost level with the host nation at the halfway mark.
Tonelli then swam his leg in 54.94 s, almost two seconds faster than he had done over the distance,.
Brooks then made a powerful, well-timed dive and surfaced almost even with his Soviet counterpart.
In his few theological works he limits himself almost entirely to the discussion of abstract questions of logic and psychology.
He devoted most of his time to preaching to the Jews.
Both works are furnished with appendices giving the Hebrew alphabet in Hebrew and Latin type, rules of grammar and for reading Hebrew, the Decalogue in Hebrew, some Messianic texts from the Old Testament, etc.. They are among the earliest specimens of Hebrew printing in Germany, and the first attempt at Hebrew grammar in that country by a Christian scholar.
Writing for The Sunday Times, theatre critic Bernard Levin said : `` It is good to salute the opening of a new theatre ; it is thrice good to be able to do so with almost unqualified praise for its first production.
At the Riverside Studios, Peter Gill -LRB- who is in charge of the whole enterprise -RRB- has directed ` The Cherry Orchard' with a cast so astonishingly suitable that I began, hallucinatorily, to believe that they had been assembled first, and that Chekhov had then written the play round them.
What is more, they are achieving this effect on an impossible stage ; it is seventy-five feet wide -LRB- the players have to sprint, never mind run, if they are to get off at all -RRB-, absurdly shallow, and lacking even the most rudimentary trappings in the way of flies, a thrust or even wings ... Mr Gill and his cast have sought success in the only place it can be found : inside themselves and the play.
Wood also explained why the Gullah people have preserved so much more of their African cultural heritage than any other black community in the U.S.. The slave ships coming from Africa brought mosquitos which spread malaria and yellow fever in the semi-tropical `` low country '' region bordering the South Carolina coast.
Wood showed that the Africans were more resistant to these tropical fevers than the white colonists which resulted in a `` black majority '' in South Carolina by about 1708.
The slaves in the low country had much less contact with whites than those in colder areas such as Virginia or North Carolina where whites were in the majority.
Before Wood conceived his `` black majority '' argument, the origin of Gullah culture was not well understood.
Hall has devoted his studies to examining the world 's cities from every angle -- economic, demographic, cultural and managerial.
The research encompassed was ahead of its time ; it is only since the mid-1980s that world cities became a major school of urban research.
He regularly likens belief in evolution to religious faith, on the basis that religious claims also can not be tested and similarly have their origins not in certain knowledge, but rather in the preferences of the believer.
In support of his scepticism he cites Karl Popper 's remarks on the scientific status of evolution, in which Popper confesses to being disturbed by the apparent tautology of the theory of natural selection.See, among other locations, `` Natural Selection and the Emergence of Mind '' in ` Dialectica', vol 32 No 3-4, 1978 pp 339-355.
His work has encompassed a number of themes.
One painting in particular ` Croatian and Muslim', detailing a rape created controversy partly because of its explicit subject matter but also because Howson had painted it from the accounts of its victims rather than witnessing it firsthand.Much of his work cast stereotypes on the lower social groups ; he portrayed brawls including drunken, even physically deformed men and women.
At least two of the children repeated claims that many adults had been involved in the abuse of children.
Spike, Boulderhead, Yuckhead, Stupidhead and other names were mentioned.
He said his mother had been told by other parents what Ellis had done to him.
The other interviewers denied coaching the children prior to their interviews.
The `` Vlachian '' origin of the brothers attested in the sources may simply confirm what is already known, that they lived in Moesia.
This is a likely option, as large numbers of Cumans had settled in Moesia in the 12th century, and continued to do so in the 13th.
If that is correct, then the nationalist controversy becomes obsolete, as the Cumans are an extinct people, which is neither Bulgarian nor Romanian, and has intermixed with both.
By giving classes to children in his own house, building a little church and organizing spiritual activities he brought many people back to the Catholic faith.
After the death of the duke -LRB- 1830 -RRB- he went to live in Vienna, where he was the only Jesuit for many years.
His powerful sermons gave him fame and Jan Roothaan, the Superior General, often asked him to negotiate on his behalf the foundation of Jesuit schools : Graz, Innsbruck, Linz.
After teaching for a few years Canon Law at the Roman College in Rome -LRB- 1842 -RRB- he was sent to Belgium -LRB- 1848 -RRB- and was appointed Rector of the Jesuit theologate in Leuven -LRB- in 1850 -RRB-.
Returning to the Credit Mission, Jones believed the most pressing issue for the Mississaugas was their lack of a clear title to their land.
The settlement had established successful farms, and was almost self-sufficient.
The Credit Mississaugas believed this to be their best chance to obtain deeds to land, and so the band prepared for a move.
Jones would continue in his role as a community leader here, petitioning various branches of government for funding to build the settlement.
Despite Lavrov 's historical analysis, he still believed a socialist revolution was possible in Russia.
In other words, he believed that Russia would have to wait for the same historical development experienced by the West.
Almost 90 percent of Russia 's population were peasants, and there was also the intelligentsia : a unique bunch of people without any class affiliations, who, `` unlike other elements of Russian society, were unflawed by the past. ''.
Lorre has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, at 6619 Hollywood Boulevard.
Charles Brooking, father of the highly regarded marine painter, also named Charles -LRB- 1723-1759 -RRB-, has left a record of his presence in Ireland ; and William van der Hagen, another painter-decorator, and occasional marine painter, is also associated with the city of Cork.
The ship leaves the load area and winds through the Darlings' nursery, passing Nana the Nursemaid next to some toy blocks, the Darlings -LRB- Wendy, Michael and John -RRB- in bed and Peter Pan 's shadow on the wall.
Below the ships are various miniature versions of London 's famous landmarks : St. Paul 's Cathedral, Big Ben, the Tower Bridge and the River Thames.
Such professional labors did not produce a sufficient living for an ever-growing family, and Pelham opened a school at which he taught dancing, arithmetic, and other subjects.
Peter claims that the reason why he was so successful on the badminton court was because of his studies of Bushido, an ancient Japanese philosophy and his mentor, Miyamoto Musashi, a great samurai.
` Peter Robbins' -LRB- born August 10, 1956 in Los Angeles, California -RRB- is a former child actor best known for his voice-over work as Charlie Brown in the 1960s.
'' first used in ` It 's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown' can be heard in the later specials by either Charlie Brown or the other kids.
Schjeldahl 's poetry often addresses common experiences or familiar events in a way which grounds his work and accentuates his messages.
As an art critic and as a poet Schjeldahl 's main ambition has been seeded in his desire to help people enjoy art.
In the same interview with Blackbird Schjeldahl stated how `` ` writing things that people want to read is my bread and butter' '' -LRB- Wolgamott -RRB-.
I also ca n't believe that people like Stalin and Hitler are gon na go to the same place as Mother Teresa. ''.
Grant believed a worldwide slump would arise from the fall of the stock markets.
Militant 30 October 1987 Whilst Grant had the support of Alan Woods and Michael Roberts on this issue, he was opposed by Taaffe, Lynn Walsh, Bob Labi and what was to become the `` majority ''.
Here was first clearly delineated the dividing line that was drawn between the supporters of Grant and Taaffe.
In 1974, Taylor successfully prosecuted Judith Ward who was convicted of a series of IRA bombings -LRB- many years later, the conviction was found to have been a miscarriage of justice, mostly through Ward 's delusions of her own guilt -RRB-.
He is known for his basic writing style that eschews more sophisticated analysis for an easy-to-read and often very opinionated form.
Some of the contemporary directors he is most receptive to based on ratings and placement in year end top-ten lists include Martin Scorsese, David Lynch, Quentin Tarantino, Tim Burton, Clint Eastwood, Joel and Ethan Coen, and Ang Lee.
In 1952 he joined the Swedish Experimental Film Studio, where he made films for several years.
His work consists of short and intense novels with Kafkaesque details and feelings, often with autobiographical background.
The last one was a film about it lately is said in an advertisement `` that even Paris was shocked '' !.
The speech was interrupted before its conclusion due to Wentworth 's provocative claims, and officials imprisoned him in the the Tower.
`` Amongst other, Mr. Speaker, two things do great hurt in this place, of the which I do mean to speak : the one is a rumour which runneth about the house and this it is, `` Take heed what you do, the queen 's majesty liketh not such a matter.
The other : sometimes a message is brought into the house, either of commanding or inhibiting, very injurious to the freedom of speech and consultation.
I would to God, Mr. Speaker, that these two were buried in hell, I mean rumours and messages, for wicked they undoubtedly are.
It was his drilled pass that left Withe with the simplest of opportunities -LRB- although that description does the Number 9 no justice ; only the best strikers find space to have simple opportunities against defences of the quality of Bayern Munich -RRB-.
Withe, however, maintains there was no luck involved - even if he does admit it was n't as sweetly-struck as many of the goals that had fired Villa to that final, and the league before it.
He lived for some years in the Holy Land.
Remnants of fish traps and some petroglyphs have been carbon-dated back some 2,000 years.
His family 's homesteads grew into Petersburg which, by 1910 was incorporated and was populated largely by people of Scandinavian origin thus giving Petersburg the nickname `` Little Norway ''.
The cannery, along with three others have operated continuously since their completion.
Petersburg is one of Alaska 's major fishing communities.
In addition to its measurements, a petite-size garment may have a different ` design' from those intended for taller women.
For example, style elements may be added to give a longer, slimmer look, e.g., vertical stripes, princess seams, short skirts, large patterns or patterns arranged helically around the whole body.
Unfortunately, many modern `` petite '' sizes are actually re-named half sizes intended for mature women and, as a result, tend to be boxy and unfashionable for younger women.
Designs for taller women may also have style lines that appear to shorten the figure, such as horizontal lines -LRB- e.g., clamdigger pants or midcalf skirts -RRB- ; hence, even if the measurements are adjusted correctly, a petite-size version of a regular-size garment may be unflattering.
` Petits-Chevaux', French for `` little horses '', is a gambling game played with a mechanical device consisting of a board perforated with a number of concentric circular slits, in which revolve, each independently on its own axis, figures of jockeys on horseback, distinguished by numbers or colors.
The bystanders having staked their money according to their choice on a board marked in divisions for this purpose, the horses are started revolving rapidly together by means of mechanism attached to the board, and the horse which stops nearest a marked goal wins, every player who has staked on that horse receiving so many times his stake.
Figures of railway trains and other objects sometimes take the place of horses.
` On Spiritual Warfare', written in 1421, was his first major work.
In it he described how they subjected the common people and rode them `` as if they were beasts ''.
In it he showed how the apostles treated all people as equals, and considered Christ as the only head.
During the 1970s and 1980s he created a number of leading roles in popular stage productions in Leningrad, such as Nikita Romanovich in trilogy about Russian Tsars : ` Death of Ivan the Terrible', ` Tsar Boris', and ` Tsar Fedor Ioannovich' by Aleksei Tolstoy.
His most memorable TV performances were such roles as Laptev in Chekhov 's ` Three Years', as Corporal Vaskov in ` Dawns are quiet here' by Boris Vasilyev, and as Batmanov in ` Far from Moscow' -LRB- ` Daleko ot Moskvy' -RRB- by Vasily Azhaev.
He also portrayed a variety of historical figures, leaders and intellectuals, on stage and in film, such as the Russian composer Mikhail Glinka, Academician Ivan Sechenov, revolutionaries Lenin and Dorogomilov.
In 1974 Shelokhonov played the leading role as industrialist Peresada, opposite another Russian film star Natalia Fateeva, in ` Otvetnaya mera' -LRB- ` Counter measure' -RRB-.
For want of a more accurate common name, the family is often described as the ` Australasian robins'.
The family occurs in New Guinea, Australia and numerous Pacific Islands as far east as Samoa.
Within the family the species are known not only as robins but the flycatchers, and scrub-robins.
The petroleum industry is involved in the global processes of exploration, extraction, refining, transporting -LRB- often with oil tankers and pipelines -RRB-, and marketing petroleum products.
Petroleum is also the raw material for many chemical products, including pharmaceuticals, solvents, fertilizers, pesticides, and plastics.
The industry is usually divided into three major components : upstream, midstream and downstream.
Midstream operations are usually included in the downstream category.
The ` petroleum industry' includes the global processes of exploration, extraction, refining, transporting -LRB- often by oil tankers and pipelines -RRB-, and marketing petroleum products.
Petroleum is also the raw material for many chemical products, including pharmaceuticals, solvents, fertilizers, pesticides, and plastics.
The industry is usually divided into three major components : upstream, midstream and downstream.
Midstream operations are usually included in the downstream category.
All companies operating in Nigeria obey government operational rules and naming conventions -LRB- companies operating in Nigeria must legally be sub-entities of the main corporation, often incorporating `` Nigeria '' into its name -RRB-.
Joint ventures account for approximately 95 percent of all crude oil output, while local independent companies operating in marginal fields account for the remaining 5 percent.
Shell Nigeria owns concessions on four companies, they are : Shell Petroleum Development Company -LRB- SPDC -RRB-, Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company -LRB- SNEPCO -RRB-, Shell Nigeria Gas -LRB- SNG -RRB-, Shell Nigeria Oil Products -LRB- SNOP -RRB-, as well as holding a major stake in Nigeria Liquified Natural Gas -LRB- NLNG -RRB-.
The Petronas Towers were a setting for some scenes in the 1999 film ` Entrapment' starring Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones..
In the episode `` Bound and Buried '', in ` Life After People : The Series', the towers are shown collapsing 500 years after people due to corrosion and the weakening of the concrete columns.
The towers also feature in three levels of the game ` Hitman 2 : Silent Assassin' where the player travels from one tower to another using the sky bridge, though it is unlike the real sky bridge ; instead of being a narrow passageway, the sky bridge is wide and entered by breaking a panel of glass.
The Petronas Towers are also a major setting in the 2006 Bollywood film, Don - The Chase Begins Again, starring Shah Rukh Khan and 2005 Kollywood film, Anniyan, directed by S. Shankar.Also, in the 2007 movie, Billa starring Ajith, Nayanthara, Namitha, a remake of the 1980 classic Billa by Rajnikanth, the Pertonas Twin Towers are being seen as a major setting.In Joseph Vijay starrer Kuruvi you can see the Petronas towers.Followed by Surya Sivakumar 's Ayan.
He borrows frequently from profane authors, especially from Flavius Josephus for the beginning of the Gospels, and very often the test is as though paraphrased in a commentary where all data, cosmological and physical, philosophical, theological, geographical, etc., are found.
The work consists of twenty books and often small `` additions '' supply geographical or etymological appendixes at the end of the chapters.
Haitian spirits, or loa, are divided into several `` nations. ''.
Two of the major nations are the Rada and Petwo.
The 107 comes in four trim levels :.
Sales in the UK were strong from the start, with the 206 regularly being among the nation 's five most popular new cars during its first six years on sale.
Second-hand examples of the 206 traditionally hold their value well, due to high demand.
In churches with a tradition of public kneeling prayer, pews are usually equipped with kneelers in front of the seating bench so members of the congregation can kneel on them instead of the floor.
These kneelers essentially have long, usually padded boards which run lengthwise parallel to the seating bench of the pew.
These kneeler boards may be 15 cm or so wide and elevated perhaps 10-15 cm above the floor, but dimensions can vary widely.
Permanently attached kneelers are often made so they can be rotated or otherwise moved up out of the way when the congregation members are not kneeling.
Pewter items are often found in churches.
Use of pewter was common from the Middle Ages up until the various developments in glass-making during the 18th and 19th centuries.
Mass production of glass products has seen glass universally replace pewter in day-to-day life.
Although some items still exist, Ancient Roman pewter is very rare.
Whereas evolutionary game theory studies the behavior of large populations of agents, the theory of ` learning in games' focuses on whether the actions of a small group of players end up conforming to some notion of equilibrium.
There is a complex feedback between a player 's beliefs, their actions and the actions of others, which makes the data-generating process exceedingly non-stationary.
Foster and Young -LRB- 2001 -RRB- demonstrate the failure of Bayesian learning rules to learn mixed equilibria in games of uncertain information, where the distribution of payoffs is not common knowledge.
The final major production model was the Pfalz D.XII, a development of the D.III that abandoned the sesquiplane configuration in favor of two-bay wings similar to those of the French SPAD.
It entered the Second Fighter Competition in June 1918 against the famous Fokker E.V monoplane and other designs.
A few aircraft were eventually featured in various movies, notably ` Hell 's Angels' and ` The Dawn Patrol'.
The surgeon cuts on a generally horizontal -LRB- slightly curved -RRB- line just above the pubic symphysis.
This incision is commonly called the `` bikini line incision ''.
It is often used in preference to other incision types for the sake of aesthetics, because the scar will be hidden by the pubic hair.
The population reached approximately 250 during the mid-1890s and a small downtown developed even though most residents did their branching and shipping in Round Rock, eight miles to the northwest.
Around 580 people lived in the community in 1930.
During World War II, the Soviet Union used bacteriophages to treat many soldiers infected with various bacterial diseases e.g. dysentery and gangrene.
Russian researchers continued to develop and to refine their treatments and to publish their research and results.
For 80 years Georgian doctors have been treating local people, including babies and newborns, with phages.
Other expressions of this disease consist of an almost obsessive need for a glass of water while eating.
Certain patients suffering from phagophobia may fly into mild seizures and/or irrational rages if deprived of their water while eating.
During these rages, phagophobia some patients have a tendency to rapidly walk around the room holding an empty glass in one hand while plugging their ear with their other hand.
The disc shows traces of corrections made by the scribe in several places.
In the table below, the character `` names '' as given by Louis Godart -LRB- 1995 -RRB- are given in upper case ; where other description or elaboration applies, they are given in lower case.
Following pollination, petals will usually undergo senescence -LRB- i.e. wilt and disintegrate -RRB- because it is metabolically expensive to maintain them.
` Phalaenopsis amabilis', like most of the other species in this genus, has a short stem.
The rooting of ` P. amabilis' is usually unbranched.
The leaves of ` P. amabilis' vary from oblong to elliptic at the base and obtuse, minutely, at the tip or apex and measures at 50 × 10 cm. The moon orchid 's flower is showy, membranous, white, the lip, -LRB- the unpared petals of an orchid -RRB- which is three-lobed, and the callus are a variety of yellow and red depending on the individual plant.
The dispersal of spores is different from most `` typical '' mushrooms that spread their spores through the air.
Stinkhorns instead produce a sticky spore mass on their tip which has a sharp, sickly-sweet odor of carrion to attract flies and other insects.
The mature fruiting bodies can be smelled from a considerable distance in the woods, and at close quarters most people find the cloying stink extremely repulsive.
The flies land in the gleba and in doing so collect the spore mass on their legs and carry it to other locations.
Mostly Local transport is done by Government Buses & some private vehicles, Auto rickshaws, Two Wheelers, now a days roads are quite good.
Most of the people use bicycle or two wheelers as a mode of transportation.
State transport to major cities like Mumbai, Pune, Nasik etc. is also available from the Central Bus Stand.
Few Private buses also have daily service to Pune, Mumbai every night with very affordable rates.There is no railway connected to Phaltan but many people daily uses the near by railway staion Lonand to go to Mumbai and Kolhapur side.
So Phan B?i Châu sent five people with a few grenades to the three regions of Vietnam.
That is to say, he wished to overthrow the monarchy in order to create a basis for the promotion of popular rights ; I, on the contrary, maintained that first the foreign enemy should be driven out, and after our nation 's independence was restored we could talk about other things.
His plan was to raise up the people to abolish the monarchy, with which I absolutely disagreed.
However, even though his political view was the opposite of mine, he liked me personally a great deal and we roomed together for several weeks.
Recording largely took place at AV Happenings during the second half of 2002, with the band working through the night so as not to disturb staff who worked in other parts of the building during the day.
In the end it was the wigwam that was easiest to put up and sounded best ''.
A brief two week session with Gorwel Owen at Rockfield Studios saw some of the album 's more `` straight ahead '' tracks recorded with live vocals before the band returned to AV Happenings and `` messed around '' with them.
When the album was almost finished the band enlisted the services of Tony Doogan who engineered sessions during which several vocal parts were recorded.
Additionally, efforts to promote the ` appropriate use' of medications may also involve other providers like pharmacists providing clinical consulting services.
In settings such as hospitals and long-term care, pharmacists often collaborate closely with physicians to ensure optimal prescribing choices are made.
Pharmacist collaboration with family physicians in order to improve prescribing may also be funded.
In terms of the global market, India currently holds a modest 1-2 % share, but it has been growing at approximately 10 % per year -LSB- 27 -RSB-.
India gained its foothold on the global scene with its innovatively-engineered generic drugs and active pharmaceutical ingredients -LRB- API -RRB-, and it is now seeking to become a major player in outsourced clinical research as well as contract manufacturing and research.
There are 74 U.S. FDA-approved manufacturing facilities in India, more than in any other country outside the U.S, and in 2005, almost 20 % of all Abbreviated New Drug Applications -LRB- ANDA -RRB- to the FDA are expected to be filed by Indian companies -LSB- 21,27 -RSB-.
These include changes to the herb from farming practices, substitution of species or other plants altogether, adulteration and cross-pollination issues.
This may be remedied with woods grown programs, but they are insufficient to produce enough ginseng to meet demand.
Hospital pharmacies can usually be found within the premises of the hospital.
Hospital pharmacies usually stock a larger range of medications, including more specialized medications, than would be feasible in the community setting.
Hospital pharmacists and trained pharmacy technicians compound sterile products for patients including total parenteral nutrition -LRB- TPN -RRB-, and other medications given intravenously.
Pharmakos does not only mean scapegoat, It is a synonym for ` pharmakeus', a word often repeated by Plato, meaning ` wizard', ` magician', even ` poisoner'.
In Plato 's dialogues, Socrates is often depicted and termed as a ` pharmakeus'.
In Phaedrus, he fiercely objects to the evil effects of writing, which, obviously, is what makes Derrida so interested in this book.
Here Socrates deliberately overlooks the other meaning of the word : the cure.
This, he claims, can lead us to the truth of the ` eidos', that which is identical to itself, always the same as itself, invariable.
Here Socrates again overlooks the ` other' reading of the word ` pharmakon' : the poison.
He acts as a magician -LRB- pharmakos -RRB- - Socrates himself speaks about a supernatural voice that talks through him - and his most famous medicine -LRB- pharmakon -RRB- is speech, dialectics and dialogue leading to ultimate knowledge and truth.
But, ironically, Socrates also becomes Athens 's most famous ` other' pharmakos, the scapegoat.
He is an abominable ` other' ; not the absolute other, the barbarian, but the other -LRB- the outside -RRB- who is very near, like those outcasts, who is always-already on the inside.
The interplay between the words ` pharmakon-pharmakos-pharmakeus' is another example of Derridian ` Trace'.
If, during a player 's turn, they are able to make their current Phase with the cards in their hand, they lay the Phase down, face-up on the table before discarding. \ n Phases must be made in order, from 1 to 10. \ n A player must have the whole Phase in hand before laying it down. \ n A player may lay down more than the minimum requirements of a Phase, but only if the additional cards can be directly added to the cards already in the Phase.
For instance, if a Phase requires a set of 3 but the player has four of that card, the player may lay down all four cards when completing the Phase. \ n Only one Phase may be made per hand.
As a result, players may not all be working on the same Phase in the same hand. \ n Players receive credit for making a Phase as soon as it is laid down.
Several players will often complete their Phase in the same hand.
When these plane waves -LRB- parallel wave fronts -RRB- hit the phase object ` O' -LRB- located in the object plane labeled' 2' -RRB-, some of this light is diffracted -LRB- and/or refracted -RRB- while moving through the specimen.
The location of the phase plate ` P' has now a profound impact on the S-wave while leaving most of the D-wave `` unharmed ''.
In what is known as positive phase contrast optics, the phase plate ` P' reduces the amplitude of all light rays traveling through the phase annulus -LRB- mainly S-waves -RRB- by 70 to 90 % and advances the phase by yet another 90 ° -LRB- ? / 4 -RRB-.
However, the phase plate leaves most of the D-waves `` untouched ''.
There are two major processes for recovering the phases using the data obtained by regular equipment.
-LRB- A trio of reflections in which the intensity and phase of one reflection can be explained by the other two has a triple relation. -RRB-.
The other is the Patterson method, which directly determines the positions of heavy atoms.
Because of the development of computers, the direct method is now the most useful technique for solving the phase problem.
A fluid, which is composed of atoms arranged in a disordered but homogeneous manner, possesses continuous translational symmetry : each point inside the fluid has the same properties as any other point.
A crystalline solid, on the other hand, is made up of atoms arranged in a regular lattice.
Each point in the solid is ` not' similar to other points, unless those points are displaced by an amount equal to some lattice spacing.
Although Flash devices of higher ` capacity' were available -LRB- 64 Gb, or 8 GB, was just coming to market -RRB-, other technologies competing to replace Flash generally offered lower densities -LRB- larger cell sizes -RRB-.
-LRB- State-of-the-art capacities on NAND passed 512 Mb some time ago. -RRB-.
NOR Flash offers similar densities to Samsung 's PRAM prototype and already offers bit addressability -LRB- unlike NAND where memory is accessed in banks of many bytes at a time -RRB-.
Phase noise is another type of jitter observed in PLLs, and is mostly caused by the amplifier elements used in the circuit.
The best digital PLLs are constructed with emitter-coupled logic -LRB- ECL -RRB- elements, at the expense of high power consumption.
To keep phase noise low in PLL circuits, it is best to avoid saturating logic families such as transistor-transistor logic -LRB- TTL -RRB- or CMOS.
As described in the above text, certain departments and or parts of an organization may be implemented in different time slots.
HRM needs different modules of an ERP system then Finance -LRB- module -RRB- or Finance may need an additional accounting software package -LRB- Product -RRB-.
After the certain department has been conversed the loop starts over, and another department or user group may be conversed.
If all of the departments or organization parts are conversed and the system is totally implemented the system is officially delivered to the organization and the implementation team may be dissolved.
The area is encircled by matted bamboo groves and other alluring vegetations.
You will come across varieties of butterflies, including some rare species found in this region.
Aristotle, in `` Politics '', claims that he made changes to land reforms `` family plots and the number of citizens should be kept equal, even if the citizens had all started with plots of unequal size. ''.
Does this correspond with him acting as champion of the people -LRB- a common theme running through ancient tyranny -RRB-, making sure everyone has the same land rights ?.
He also claims that Pheidon started off as a king -LRB- basileus -RRB- and ended up a tyrant -LRB- tyrannos -RRB-.
Hypertensive crisis may result from the overconsumption of tyramine-containing foods.
As a result, patients on phenelzine and other MAOIs must avoid excess quantities of certain foods that contain tyramine such as aged cheeses and cured meats, among others.
Serotonin syndrome may result from an interaction with certain drugs which increase serotonin activity.
The approach that was most at odds with phenomenology was that of Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown, who were influenced by Pop art.
` Phenoxyethanol' is an organic chemical compound, a glycol ether often used in dermatological products such as skin creams and sunscreen.
It is a bactericide -LRB- usually used in conjunction with quaternary ammonium compounds -RRB-, often used in place of sodium azide in biological buffers as 2-phenoxyethanol is less toxic and non-reactive with copper and lead.
It is also used as a fixative for perfumes, an insect repellent, a topical antiseptic, a solvent for cellulose acetate, some dyes, inks, and resins, in preservatives, pharmaceuticals, and in organic synthesis.
It is used as an anesthetic in the aquaculture of some fishH.
Young people can be seen playing football as well the traditional Thai sports, sepaktakraw.
The elderly can be seen playing Chess and other board games by the riverside.
It is interesting to note that while Thai historians recorded that Phetracha was not interested in being King, Jesuit missionaries stated otherwise, that he was an ambitious man.
When the royal palace at Lopburi was finished, King Narai would stay there for many months in a year, leaving Phetracha as regent to take care of matters in Ayutthaya.
While the other chapters were dying or being forced to die, Mu Theta was building and growing and was willing and able to take the leadership position in the Fraternity and at Gulf Coast Military Academy.
Like the members of the Sigma, a majority of the members of the Chapter of Phi Iota Alpha of the University of Louisiana disillusioned with character given to their brotherhood decided to separate, founding in April 1939 ` Sigma Iota Alpha' Fraternity composed of Latin students of this university.
Being that Phi Sigma Alpha organized in Puerto Rico with ideals similar to those of the Sigma Iota Alpha in Louisiana, and being both organizations the product of almost identical preceding brotherhoods, negotiations arose immediately to fuse both brotherhoods in a single one.
This was decided in a convention on September 10, 1939 in the University Puerto Rico, organizing themselves as ` Fraternidad SIGMA' or -LRB- Sigma Fraternity -RRB- with its ramifications ; ` Phi Sigma Alpha Zone' in Puerto Rico and Sigma Iota Alpha Zone in Louisiana -LRB- Later the USA Zone 's name was changed to ` Phi Sigma Beta Zone' and came to include other universities of the north -RRB-. The Phi Sigma Alpha Zone was organized by a board of directors of the Zone, the Militant chapter Alpha Boriquén of San Juan, and two university chapters, one in U.P.R. Río Piedras and another one in the C.A.A.M. of Mayagüez.
Apart from a number of ` lekythoi', he painted two chalice ` kraters' in white-ground technique, a rarity at the time.
His conventional name is based on the fact that a painted ` phiale', a vase shape rarely equipped with figural depictions, is known from him.
Music from the last three decades is played and the young people are captured in a single camera take, as they dance or, at times, stand round or slump to the floor.
Another similar work was ` The World Wo n't Listen' -LRB- 2005 -RRB-, which features young people in Turkey, Colombia, and Indonesia performing karaoke versions of Smiths songs..
It was then that he was known for directing tough, realistic and sometimes violent gritty crime films.
The film made the director a rich man many times over, thanks to the fact that he owned a huge part of the movie.
That same year, Phil released what has become one of his best-selling albums, ` True Believer.'.
Yet Shacklock 's slick production work on the album was a departure in style and sound for Keaggy, and while most of the album 's material transcends the production, this would prove to be Keaggy 's lone work with Shacklock.
Years later, in reflecting on the album, Keaggy would say that ` True Believer' `` is really the most unlike me of any album I 've ever done, in my personal opinion.
His visual style is distinctive in its use of primitive, often skeletal figures and minimalist backgrounds.
However, he felt that Sid Rosenberg often crossed the line between crude humor and total inappropriateness.
He prophetically often wrote that Rosenberg would be the downfall of the show and despite being fired from WFAN for inappropriate remarks, continued absenteeism and bad public behavior, Rosenberg was one of the instigators of Don Imus 's remarks about the Rutgers University women 's basketball team.
He criticized the ` Imus in the Morning' program for calling Mother Teresa `` a no-good bitch '', former WFAN host Len Berman as `` Lenny the Jew '' and various other `` observations '' he felt that crossed the line.
In the same column he wondered why people were shocked at Imus' `` nappy-headed-ho '' comment.
He has authored a number of books, and continues to paint and hold exhibitions.
The church at Oxford Falls also runs several Colleges ; School of Ministry, School of Creative Arts -LRB- including dance, drama, music, song writing, singing, visual arts, film and video -RRB- and School of Pastoral Care Management.
Pringle 's vision is to build a growing church and movement of churches that are relevant to today 's world, through bringing salvation to lost people and teaching people how to be disciples of Christ.
He currently writes a column for the ` Orlando Sentinel', Phil Steele,, ` Orlando Sentinel', August 3, 2009. and is considered a `` highly respected prognosticator '' within the sports media.Chris Dufresne,, ` The Los Angeles Times', August, 2009.
His company, Phil Steele Publications, produces the annual preseason magazine ` Phil Steele 's College Football Preview', which he personally writes in almost its entirety.Clay Whittington,, ` The Daily Texan', July 27, 2007.
In a comparison of the major preseason college football magazines, ESPN writer Pat Forde said : `` All the mags have their merits..
Giglio,, ` News & Observer', July 17, 2007., Rivals.com, June 26, 2007. Chris Stassen, owner of football.stassen.com, has tracked the preaseason magazines' accuracy since 1993 and rates ` Phil Steele 's' as the most accurate in its predictions.Alan Dell, -LRB- PDF -RRB-, USFBullsEye.com, Rivals.com, 2007., Stassen.com, retrieved August 5, 2009.
On Memorial Day, 2003, Brown abruptly resigned as head coach, taking over the reins in Detroit a few days later.
Following the season, O'Brien was fired and replaced by the popular Maurice Cheeks, who played for the team from 1978 -- 89, and was the starting point guard for the 1983 NBA Champions.
More importantly, Allende has been accessible to the community of `` Philadelphia Experiment '' researchers for years, discounting any intervention by the government.
Hugh Clark denied this version of events and claimed that after finding out several students had left a Bible reading to read a different version of the Bible, he commented that if reading the Bible caused this kind of confusion that it would be better if it was not read.
Anti-Catholic and nativist groups further inflamed hostile feelings towards Catholics by twisting Bishop Kenrick 's requests to the Board of Controllers into an attack against the Bible.
Examine the perforations closely ; genuine gum is normally put on stamps before they are perforated so that gum that flows into the perforations may be a sign of being faked.
An example of such a short-term fluctuation in the demand for a topical category was the brief boom in Diana, Princess of Wales issues which occurred following the popular British royal 's sudden death.
For about a year or two after the tragedy, Diana stamps issued by various British Commonwealth nations often sold for up to ten times their catalogue value.
To experienced collectors, the interest in these issues was driven by the popular media and non-collectors wishing to commemorate Diana 's death, the rise in prices was a temporary anomaly.
Philco also made battery-powered radios which were by then called `` farm radios '', most of which had cabinets identical to their AC powered versions.
Philco sold far more of this style than any other maker ; many of them exist today in collections.
By today 's standards most of them are still excellent performing AM band radios when restored.
During the 1970s, Doráti and the orchestra, under contract with Decca Records, made a recording of the complete cycle of Joseph Haydn 's symphonies ; only one other ensemble, the Austro-Hungarian Haydn Orchestra, conducted by Ádám Fischer, has since repeated this feat.
Our children, for instance, need us to believe in them.
Mentorship, in other words, is about the contemplation of the yet untapped potential of another human being.
People like to say : `` I will believe it when I see it. ''.
A no less valid assertion, however, is : '' will see it when I believe it. ''.
The appointment of Timberlake in the Department of Biological Control in 1924 was motivated by his extensive knowledge of the taxonomy of parasitic Hymenoptera and of predaceous ladybird beetles, groups of importance in biological control of pest insects.
However, by the late 1920s and thereafter, he focused almost entirely upon the taxonomy of native bees, especially the genus ` Perdita'.
There are over 800 species of ` Perdita', most described by Timberlake, but also by T.D.A. Cockerell.
In exchange, her maternal lands of Courtenay and other estates on the continent were ceded to Hugh 's sister Joan, who married Catherine 's half-brother, Philip of Valois.
To complete the separation of Eastern and Western claims, Hugh ceded his rights to Thessalonica to Louis, while Louis renounced his claims on his parents' inheritance in favor of Hugh.
The engagement of Philip 's eldest son Charles of Taranto to Matilda of Hainault was broken off, and he was engaged to Jeanne de Valois, younger sister of Catherine of Valois ; his father also ceded to him the title of Despot of Romania and the claims thereto appertaining.
In 1558 Turkish admiral Piyale Pasha captured the Balearic Islands, especially inflicting great damage on Minorca and enslaving many, while raiding the coasts of the Spanish mainland.
Since his father 's losses against the Ottomans and against Barbarossa Hayreddin Pasha in 1541, the major European sea powers in the Mediterranean, namely Spain and Venice, became hesitant in confronting the Ottomans.
The myth of `` Turkish invincibility '' was becoming a popular story, causing fear and panic among the people.
` The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch' utilizes an array of science fiction concepts and features several layers of reality and unreality.
Life is physically daunting and psychologically monotonous for most colonists, so the UN must draft people to go to the colonies.
The company also secretly creates `` Can-D '', an illegal but widely available hallucinogenic drug allowing the user to `` translate '' into Perky Pat -LRB- if the drug user is a woman -RRB- or Pat 's boyfriend, Walt -LRB- if the drug user is a man -RRB-.
This recreational use of Can-D allows colonists to experience a few minutes of an idealized life on Earth by participating in a collective hallucination.
Philip LaZebnik has numerous film and TV writing credits, both in Los Angeles and Europe.
Since moving to Europe, his screen credits include the films The Three Investigators : the Mystery of Skeleton Island ; The Three Investigators : the Secret of Terror Castle ; The Treasure of the Templar Knights ; The Treasure of the Templar Knights II : The Black Brotherhood ; The Treasure of the Templar Knights III : The Snake Crown ; Asterix and the Vikings ; The Wild Bunch ; Mikisoq ; and Search for Planet X ; as well as consulting on numerous other films.
Co-author with Kingsley Day of the award-winning musical Summer Stock Murder, he most recently wrote the book for the musical My Fairy Tale with songs by Stephen Schwartz, produced in 2005 at Denmark 's Gladsaxe Theatre as part of the Hans Christian Andersen bicentennial celebration.
The screenplay for Mulan won the 1998 Annie Award for best animation screenplay.
He has observed that though racism has been extant in numerous contexts, it began in America as a business proposition : Slavery.
In two anecdotes relating to Raisin in the Sun, he points out that back in 1959, the year the play was first produced, there was a man seated in the best seat in the House -LRB- Fourth Row Center -RRB-.
This man preferred to stand at the back of the theater for the entire performance rather than in the best seat in the house situated between two black couples, an interesting commentary on the irrationality of prejudice.
The next day, along with a rave review there was an editorial stating that the same people who applauded Walter Lee, went home and kept fighting to keep black people out of their neighborhoods.
Philip Solomon is UK based and has appeared many times on television and radion in his role as a medium.
He has also written ten books on the paranormal world for the popular market as well as being a presenter for Wolverhampton City Radio 101.8 FM.
He has worked with several well-known mediums such as Derek Acorah and renowned parapsychologists such as Dr Hans Holzer.
In the past he has worked for organisations such as the BBC and continues to be a major fund-raiser for charitable organisations.
As the third child of eight, Philip Verheyen was born in Verrebroek -LRB- most likely in his parents' house, standing on a small plot of owned land in the area called `` Borring '', close to the border with Meerdonk -RRB- to Thomas Verheyen and Joanna Goeman.
Little is known of his childhood.
After some months in the Order, Philip grew tired of monastic life, left the Franciscans in 1589, took up a mercantile career, and went to the Philippines, another Spanish colony, where he led a life of pleasure.
After some years he was to have been ordained at the monastery in Mexico, the episcopal see of Manila being at that time vacant.
The governor of the province confiscated the ship and imprisoned its crew and passengers, among whom were another Franciscan, Juan de Zamorra, two Augustinians and a Dominican.
Philip 's rule started with yet another Germanic incursion on the provinces of Pannonia and the Goths invaded Moesia -LRB- modern-day Serbia and Bulgaria -RRB- in the Danube frontier.
Pacatianus' revolt was not the only threat to his rule : in the East, Marcus Jotapianus led another uprising in response to the oppressive rule of Priscus and the excessive taxation of the Eastern provinces.
He eagerly labored for an agreement, for his patristic studies and the Dialogue -LRB- 1530 -RRB- of Ocolampadius had made him doubt the correctness of Luther 's doctrine.
Bucer did not go so far as to believe with Luther that the true body of Christ in the Lord 's Supper is bitten by the teeth, but admitted the offering of the body and blood in the symbols of bread and wine.
Melanchthon discussed Bucer 's views with the most prominent adherents of Luther ; but Luther himself would not agree to a mere veiling of the dispute.
Melanchthon 's relation to Luther was not disturbed by his work as a mediator, although Luther for a time suspected that Melanchthon was `` almost of the opinion of Zwingli '' ; nevertheless he desired to `` share his heart with him. ''.
The school is ranked one of the best middle schools in the city.
The encounters by the unit which preceded this rescue, together with other Marine units operating in Basilan were the first ever series of encounters by the AFP against the ASG.
The first major change in the PMA curriculum occurred in 1993, with the introduction of the tri-service curriculum.
The tri-service curriculum aimed to graduate officers who were immediately deployable after graduation to the three major branches of service : the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force.
This objective was best realized by the Navy, which found the Naval Officers' Qualification Course ` A' that prepared infantry-trained PMA graduates for naval duties, no longer necessary.
The Army, on the other hand, enhanced infantry training with various modules such as the Scout Ranger Orientation Course, C3I, leadership, and management.
The tarsier mainly dines on insects, usually crickets, and frogs.
Its chief predator, on the other hand, is the common house cat.
But they almost always return before daybreak.
Thus, he and two other staff members have made it their daily morning routine to inspect the net for breaches.
Both of them said that they are not backing out of the race and its was just that they are having some financial problems.
Another problem for the GO is the frequent cancellation of their provincial sorties due to lack of local coordinators that will bring people into their rallies.
Traditional Filipino sports are popular,, Hagonoy.com, Seasite.niu.edu among the youth, primarily as children 's games, such as ` luksung baka', ` patintero', ` piko', and ` tumbang preso'.
Card games are popular during festivities, with some, including ` Pusoy' and ` Tong-its', being used as a form of illegal gambling.
Melanchthon, on the other hand, with his faithful followers Joachim Camerarius, Georg Major, Justus Menius, Johann Pfeffinger, Paul Eber, Cruciger, Victorinus Strigel, and others saw in the self-styled genuine Lutherans nothing but a narrow and contentious class, which, ignoring the inherent teaching of Luther, sought to domineer over the church by letter and name, and in addition to assert its own ambitious self.
On the other hand, the Philippists regarded themselves as the faithful guardians of learning over against the alleged `` barbarism, '' and as the mean between the extremes.
The genuine Lutherans also claimed to be representatives of the pure doctrine, defenders of orthodoxy, and heirs of the spirit of Martin Luther.
Personal, political, and ecclesiastical animosities widened the breach ; such as the rivalry between the Ernestine branch of the Saxon house -LRB- now extruded from the electoral dignity -RRB- and the Albertine branch ; the jealousy between the new Ernestine University of Jena and the electoral universities of Wittenberg and Leipzig, in both of which the Philippists had the majority ; and the bitter personal antagonism felt at Wittenberg for Flacius, who assailed his former teachers harshly and made all reconciliation impossible.
Philitas was the most important intellectual figure in the early years of Hellenistic civilization.Bulloch, `` Hellenistic poetry '', p. 4.
`` The most important intellectual figure in the early years of the new Hellenistic world was Philetas from the east Greek island of Cos.. ''.
He gained instant recognition in both poetry and literary scholarship, Bulloch, `` Hellenistic poetry '', p. 4. and, as far as is known, was the first person called `` poet as well as scholar '' -LRB- ??????? ? µ ? ??? ????????, ` poiet?s áma kai kritikós' -RRB-.
Niblock 's music is an exploration of sound textures created by multiple tones in very dense, often atonal tunings -LRB- generally microtonal in conception -RRB- performed in long durations.
The layering of long tones only very slightly distinct in pitch creates a multitude of beats and generates complex overtone patterns and other fascinating psychoacoustic effects.
The combination of apparently static surface textures and extremely active harmonic movement generates a highly original music that, while having things in common with early drone-based Minimalism, is utterly distinct in sound and technique.
Niblock 's work continues to influence a generation of musicians, especially younger players from a variety of musical genres.
By most accounts, 39 singles were issued on the label.
HistoryAboriginesAboriginal people were the first to live at Phillip Bay and La Perouse.
Their presence was recorded by Arthur Phillip and the French expedition led by Jean de La Pérouse who arrived within six days of each other in January 1788.
The area is now owned by Aboriginal people, as is Yarra Bay House and the headland between Frenchmans Bay and Yarra Bay.
Bush studied at the Peabody Conservatory with Leon Fleisher, and has said that he still considers Fleisher his major musical influence.
He subsequently moved to New York City, and for most of his career was based there.
In recent years he has made his home elsewhere in the U.S., teaching for several years at the University of Michigan and then moving to Columbia, South Carolina, where he lives today.
After some investigating, Harley learned Alan was telling the truth -- Phillip was alive !.
Though distressed at the thought of him returning, Harley decided it might be best to know his whereabouts and took the case.
It was Remy who claimed to have run into Phillip after losing some gambling money in Clayton.
Remy claimed Phillip paid him to deliver this package -LRB- which contained Phillip 's old high school sports jersey -RRB- to Zach.
With the 1774 publication of Wheatley 's book ` Poems on Various Subjects,' she `` became the most famous African on the face of the earth. '''.
Voltaire stated in a letter to a friend that Wheatley had proved that black people could write poetry.
John Paul Jones asked a fellow officer to deliver some of his personal writings to `` Phillis the African favorite of the Nine -LRB- muses -RRB- and Apollo. '''.
Philly works alongside his close friend Mick Riley MBE, who also survived cancer of the testicles in 1998, and another testicular cancer survivor and awareness campaigner in the world of professional football/TV and the media, Simon Shakeshaft.
Morris and Riley hail from the same area in Merseyside, shared a room in the army and were in the same boxing team in Germany, and both had the same cancer within 5 years of each other ; the chances of this are around 560,000:1, which still baffles leading cancer experts today.
Programs and activitiesTrekThe standard and most popular Philmont program is the ` trek'.
A group of Scouts on a trek is called a ` crew' ; most crews are assembled by troops, Venturing crews, or local councils.
A crew consists of eight to twelve people, with two to four adult leaders, a chaplain 's aide, and a crew leader.
` Sister crews' are crews that follow the same itinerary and are usually from different troops.
Its also the case that since Philodendron often are pollinated by specific species of beetles that this would prevent cross pollination.
The beetles have also been observed to be selective to the height of the plant they pollinate which would serve as an additional preventitive measure that would make hybrids less likely.
An interesting feature of these hybrids is that they often can show remarkable types of crosses with regards to genetic relation.
The number of Philolexians is actually unknown, because any person who attends even part of a meeting is officially a member -LRB- the organization 's website claims that the number is greater than one but less than infinity -RRB-.
Those candidates who qualify may receive an invitation to New Member Night, a secretive initiation rite.
This meeting is not open to the public, and if asked, Full Philos may only disclose that it involves weasels and/or platypi.
Her venture as a singer was with the popular Old Cross Céilí Band, whom she sang with as a dare, but stayed with the group.
After a number of years, in the 1960s the band was renamed The Country Flavour.
She regularly toured with Ray Lynam in 1975 and they recorded many duets together and even garnered considerable success with them.
Aesthetics EssentialismIn art, essentialism is the idea that certain concepts may be expressed organically in certain media.
A chase scene, for example, may be appropriate for motion pictures, but poorly realized in poetry, because the essential components of the poetic medium are ill suited to convey the information of a chase scene.
` Local' skeptics deny that people do or can have knowledge of a particular area.
They may be skeptical about the possibility of one form of knowledge without doubting other forms.
Different kinds of local skepticism may emerge, depending on the area.
A person may doubt the truth value of different types of journalism, for example, depending on the types of media they trust.
The reason for not interfering, unless for the sake of others, with a person 's voluntary acts, is consideration for his liberty.
His voluntary choice is evidence that what he so chooses is desirable, or at the least endurable, to him, and his good is on the whole best provided for by allowing him to take his own means of pursuing it.
# If physicalism is true, then it is ` not' possible for there to be a world in which all the physical facts are the same as those of the actual world but in which there are ` additional' facts.
-LRB- This is because, according to physicalism, ` all' the facts are fully determined by the physical facts ; so any world that is ` physically' indistinguishable from our world is ` entirely' indistinguishable from our world. -RRB- # But there is a possible world in which all the physical facts are the same as those of our world but in which there are additional facts.
-LRB- For example, it is possible that there is a world exactly like ours in every physical respect, but in it everyone lacks certain mental states, namely any phenomenal experiences or qualia.
The people there look and act just like people in the actual world, but they do n't feel anything ; when one gets shot, for example, he yells out as if he is in pain, but he does n't ` feel' any pain. -RRB- # Therefore, physicalism is false.
At the time, he understood most of the problems of philosophy as mere puzzles of language, which could be solved by investigating and then minding the logical structure of language.
Years later he would reverse a number of the positions he had set out in the ` Tractatus', in for example his second major work, ` Philosophical Investigations' -LRB- 1953 -RRB-.
In the United States, meanwhile, the philosophy of W. V. O. Quine was having a major influence, with such classics as Two Dogmas of Empiricism.
He argued for holism, the thesis that language, including scientific language, is a set of interconnected sentences, none of which can be verified on its own, rather, the sentences in the language depend on each other for their meaning and truth conditions.
A consequence of Quine 's approach is that language as a whole has only a very thin relation to experience, some sentences which refer directly to experience might be somewhat modified by sense impressions, but as the whole of language is theory-laden, for the whole language to be modified, more than this is required.
Eugénie is instructed on the pleasures of various sexual practices and she proves to be a fast learner.
As is usually the case in Sade 's work, the characters are all bisexual, and sodomy is the preferred activity of all concerned, especially Dolmancé, who prefers male sexual partners and will not have anything other than anal intercourse with females.
Madame de Saint-Ange and her younger brother Le Chevalier also have sex with one another, and boast of doing so on a regular basis.
Their incest - and all manner of other sexual activity and taboos, such as sodomy, adultery, and homosexuality - are justified by Dolmancé in a series of energetic arguments that ultimately boil down to ` if it feels good, do it.'.
A Stand Alone Complex can be compared to the emergent copycat behavior that often occurs after incidents such as serial murders or terrorist attacks.
In 1844, his ` The Ego and Its Own' -LRB- ` Der Einzige und sein Eigentum' which may literally be translated as ` The Unique Individual and His Property'Moggach, Douglas.
Stirner proposes that most commonly accepted social institutions-including the notion of State, property as a right, natural rights in general, and the very notion of society-were mere illusions or ` ghosts' in the mind, saying of society that `` the individuals are its reality. ''.
In this form of despair, the individual finds him or herself in despair, understands they are in despair, and seeks some way to alleviate it, and yet no help is forthcoming.
At this level of despair the individual revels in their own despair and sees their own pain as lifting them up above the base nature of other men who do not find themselves in this state.
This is the least common form of despair and Kierkegaard claims it is mostly found in true poets.
One last note is that as one travels further down the forms of despair, the number of people in each group becomes less and less.
Early writers dealing with economic topics, such as Adam Smith, borrowed many of their techniques and terminology from classical physics.
Today a few theorists are starting to question the mechanistic approach and model business on biological principles or chaos theory.
Newton 's law of inertia has found its way into marketing where it is claimed that consumers will continue in their current state unless they are encouraged to act otherwise.
Major philosophical questions arise as soon as one attempts to define chemistry and what it studies.
Atoms and molecules are often assumed to be the fundamental units of chemical theory, Schummer, Joaquin. -LRB- 2006 -RRB-.
One might ask, for example, `` When people say the word ` rocks', what is it that the word represents ? ''.
Another version of formalism is often known as deductivism.
The same is held to be true for all other mathematical statements.
Philosophy of space and timeTimeTime is a fundamental quantity -LRB- that is, a quantity which can not be defined in terms of other quantities, because at present we do n't know anything more basic than time -RRB-.
ISBN 0-224-04447-8 -LRB- hardcover -RRB-, 0-09-944068-7 -LRB- paperback -RRB-. as well as most people up until the 20th century, thought that time was the same for everyone everywhere. Our modern conception of time is based on Einstein 's theory of relativity and Hermann Minkowski 's spacetime, in which rates of time at separate places run differently, and space and time are merged into spacetime.
Time may be quantized, with the theoretical smallest time being the Planck time.
For Kuhn, the fundamental difference between science and other disciplines is in the way in which the communities function.
-LRB- See Science studies and the links there. -RRB-.
Journal of clinical psychology, 55 -LRB- 12 -RRB-, pp1453-1465.. Social research remains extremely common and effective ` in practise' with respect to political institutions and businesses.
Michael Burawoy has marked the difference between public sociology, which is focused firmly on practical applications, and ` academic' or ` professional' sociology, which involves dialogue amongst other social scientists and philosophers.
In Act V, scene 1, for example, the quartos say `` Call Philostrate '' in several places where the 1623 Folio says `` Call Egeus ''.
These authors argue that, unless scarring or other abnormality is present, non-retractibility may `` be considered normal for males up to and including adolescence. ''.
Hill states that full retractability of the foreskin may not be achieved until late childhood or early adulthood.
Cantu states that acquired phimosis may be caused by forceful retraction, due to the formation of scar tissue.Cantu Jr.. S..
At various times, Phinehas and his acts were cited in the United States by the promoters of laws banning interracial marriages.
The band finally hit the road in the summer, embarking on another annual summer tour of the United States.
Instead of throwing another huge summer festival to close out the tour, the band decided to focus all festival activities to the Millennium New Year 's Eve celebration.
However, at the eleventh hour, Camp Oswego took place at an airport in upstate New York. 65,000 people attended and Phish played five sets of music over two days.
A number of other groups such as Ozomatli, the Del McCoury Band, and Son Seals performed on a side stage throughout the weekend.
A new golden era of architecture took off, with various projects and young Khmer architects, often educated in France, given opportunities to design and construct.
This new movement was called `` New Khmer Architecture '' and was often characterised by a fusion of Bauhaus, European post-modern architecture, and traditional elements from Angkor.
The most prominent architect was Vann Molyvann, who was nominated chief national architect by the king himself in 1956.
Subsequently, however, the existence of the acceleration that had caused the claims was called into doubt, and accurate measurements of the orbit available by 1969 showed that the discrepancy did not exist.
Singer 's critique was justified when earlier studies were later discovered to have used an overestimated value of 5 cm/yr for the rate of altitude loss, which was later revised to 1.8 cm/yr. ''.
Page 16 The secular acceleration is now attributed to tidal effects, which had not been considered in the earlier studies.
In addition, images obtained by the Viking probes in the 1970s clearly showed a natural object, not an artificial one, and the `` hollow Phobos '' speculations have been relegated to the status of a historical curiosity.
Although the regent arrested and tortured one politician of Phocion 's cortege, he expected both groups to be heard out.
As many people attempted to speak simultaneously, Agnonides proposed that they all be put into a single cage and taken back to Athens to decide the issue there.
When Phocion started speaking, the ruler began interrupting him so annoyingly that Phocion struck the floor with his staff and he refused uttering another word.
Then, Polyperchon ordered the detention of Phocion and his associates ; while those closest to him were also seized, most of his embassy escaped from the court.Plutarch, Parallel Lives, `` Phocion ''.
In the centuries following 1200 BC, the Phoenicians formed the major naval and trading power of the region.
Brilliant textiles were a part of Phoenician wealth, and Phoenician glass was another export ware.
They traded unrefined, prick-eared hunting dogs of Asian or African origin which locally they had developed into many breeds such as the Basenji, Ibizan Hound, Pharaoh Hound, Cirneco dell ` Etna, Cretan Hound, Canary Islands Hound and Portuguese Podengo.
This is largely dismissed by skeptics as an over-extrapolation from standard deviation common in necessarily subjective eye-witness accounts.
The media and most skeptical investigators have largely preferred to split the sightings into two distinct classes - a first and second event - for which two separate explanations are offered :.
Strange Beings : -LRB- ??? igyo-hen -RRB- Published in ` Manga Shonen', 1981. The story of a female samurai who is imprisoned in a time-warp by the Phoenix as punishment for her sins along with her faithful retainer & forced to become a healer treating the victims of wars from all over time and space including humans, youkai and various extraterrestrials.
He then escapes to Japan where he becomes the feudal lord Inukami and becomes caught in the middle of the Jinshin War, as well as joining a greater battle between supernatural forces and time-travelling to a bleak future world ruled by a theocracy that claim to have captured the Phoenix.
This chapter stands in stark contrast to the earlier historical Phoenix stories, which tended to de-mythologize the mythical characters therein, for instance in ` Dawn', many Shinto gods are portrayed as mere humans.
In this chapter, however, various Youkai, Oni, Tengu and other mythical creatures are shown fighting against Bodhisattva.
It would have used only 3 watts of power during the imaging process, less than most other space cameras.
It had originally been designed and built to perform the same function on the Mars Surveyor 2001 Lander mission ; after that mission was canceled, MARDI spent several years in storage until it was deployed on the ` Phoenix' lander.
It is this competition that helps keep ` Tegenaria' populations in check, which may be advantageous to humans who live in regions with dense hobo spider populations.
Symptoms of leaf blight infections begin as one to several circular reddish-purple spots on a leaflet.
Lesions follow major veins progressing inward.
The whole leaflet may turn brown.
In severe cases, stolons, fruit trusses and petioles may become infected which may girdle and kill the stem.
The company generated revenue by selling advertisements on its chat lines, which callers would have to listen to, before being connected to other callers.
The other competing Free Chat line service provider is the Free and Fun Chat Line which additionally offers numbers across the United States.
Phonemic orthography in a language is affected by the borrowing of loanwords from another written in the same alphabet but having different sound-to-spelling conventions.
Phonemicity may be preserved by nativizing the loanword 's pronunciation as with the Russian word ????? -LRB- from French ` chauffeur' -RRB- which is pronounced in accordance with the normal rules of Russian vowel reduction.
Spelling pronunciation is another common phenomenon.
Nativizing the spelling of loanwords is also common ; for example, ` uísque' is the Portuguese spelling of ` whisky', itself a respelling of Scots Gaelic ` uisge'.
One of the adventure tour sites is boating upward on the Chay River into primitive forests, as the river becomes sinuous with several waterfalls and whirlpools until tourists arrive at Tro Mong.
There is a bull field called Ran Bo -LRB- Bull Field -RRB- due to the fact that wild bulls usually comes and reproduce in mating season.
The term ` phonograph' is usually restricted to devices playing cylinder records.
Like other, similar devices the marketers of which wanted to express the notion of `` sound '' in the devices' names, they also used the same part of the Greek word -LRB- e.g., telephone, microphone etc. -RRB-. made in 1882.
Middle English open syllable lengthening : Vowels were usually lengthened in open syllables -LRB- 13th century -RRB-, except when trisyllabic laxing would apply.
Voiced fricatives became independent phonemes through borrowing and other sound changes. \ n before back vowel becomes ; becomes.
H-dropping and h-addingH-droppingH-dropping is a linguistic term used to describe the omission of initial in words like ` house', ` heat', and ` hangover' in many dialects of English, such as Cockney and Estuary English.
The same phenomenon occurs in many other languages, such as Serbian, and Late Latin, the ancestor of the modern Romance languages.
However, phosphates are most commonly found in the form of adenosine phosphates, -LRB- AMP, ADP and ATP -RRB- and in DNA and RNA and can be released by the hydrolysis of ATP or ADP.
Similar reactions exist for the other nucleoside diphosphates and triphosphates.
Phosphoanhydride bonds in ADP and ATP, or other nucleoside diphosphates and triphosphates, contain high amounts of energy which give them their vital role in all living organisms.
Whatever the mechanism is, such specificity is possible.
However, lecithin extract consists of a mixture of phosphatidylcholine and other compounds.
It is also used along with sodium taurocholate for simulating fed - and fasted-state biorelevant media in dissolution studies of highly-lipophilic drugs.
Phosphatidylcholine is a major constituent of cell membranes, and also plays a role in membrane-mediated cell signalling.
` Phosphonates' or ` phosphonic acids' are organic compounds containing C-PO -LRB- OH -RRB- 2 or C-PO -LRB- OR -RRB- 2 groups -LRB- where R = alkyl, aryl -RRB-.
Since the work of Schwarzenbach in 1949, phosphonic acids are known as effective chelating agents.
The stability of the metal complexes increases with increasing number of phosphonic acid groups.
Phosphoproteomic analyses are ideal for the study of the dynamics of signalling networks.
The cells are collected at various timepoints, and the lysates are combined for analysis by tandem MS.Olsen JV et al.. Global, in vivo, and site-specific phosphorylation dynamics in signaling networks.
Cell. 2006 Nov 3 ; 127 -LRB- 3 -RRB- :635 -48. This allows experimenters to track the phosphorylation state of many phosphoproteins in the cell over time.
The ability to measure the global phosphorylation state of many proteins at various time points makes this approach much more powerful than traditional biochemical methods for analyzing signalling network behavior.Mumby, M. & Brekken, D. -LRB- 2005 -RRB- Phosphoproteomics : new insights into cellular signalling.
Phosphorus, being an essential plant nutrient, finds its major use as a constituent of fertilizers for agriculture and farm production in the form of concentrated phosphoric acids, which can consist of 70 % to 75 % P2O5.
Phosphorus is widely used to make organophosphorus compounds, through the intermediates phosphorus chlorides and two phosphorus sulfides : phosphorus pentasulfide, and phosphorus sesquisulfide.
Organophosphorus compounds have many applications, including in plasticizers, flame retardants, pesticides, extraction agents, and water treatment.
These include mono-calcium phosphate which is employed in baking powder and sodium tripolyphosphate and other sodium phosphates.
Among other uses these are used to improve the characteristics of processed meat and cheese.
In addition, according to the anti-Photian biographer of Ignatius, partisans of the ex-patriarch after his death endeavored to claim for him the `` honor of sainthood ''.
Further, a leading member of Leo 's court, Leo Choirospaktes, wrote poems commemorating the memory of several prominent contemporary figures, such as Leo the Mathematician and the Patriarch Stephen, and he also wrote one on Photios.S.
The group was formed in 1902 after Stieglitz was asked by the National Arts Club to put together an exhibition of the best in contemporary American photography.
Although he later claimed that he had `` enlisted the aid of the then newly organized and limited ` Photo-Secession', in fact there was no such group until he formed it on February 17, 1902, just two weeks before the show at the National Arts Club was scheduled to start.
Technically, each temporal PA signal, measured at various detection positions, provides one-dimensional radial information about the PA source relative to the detector position ; 2D surface scans offer other 2D lateral information about the PA source.
Small-aperture detectors are often used to approximate point detectors, which receive PA signals originating from spherical shells, centered at each point detector, with radii determined by the acoustic times of flight.
The three geometries commonly used are planar, cylindrical, and spherical surfaces.
Besides, algorithms based on other detection methods, such as large-aperture -LRB- plane -RRB-, line, or circle detectors have also been derived.
Pastereullosis is also known as pseudotubercullosis because it is characterized by the presence, in the chronic form of the disease, of creamy-white granulomatous nodules or whitish tubercules in several internal organs, composed of masses of bacterial cells, epithelial cells, and fibroblasts.
The nodules are most prominent in internal viscera, particularly kidney and spleen, and the infection is accompanied by widespread internal necrosis -LRB- Evelyn, 1996 ; Romalde, 2002 ; Barnes ` et al.', 2005 -RRB-.
Anorexia with darkening of the skin as well as focused necrosis of the gills are the only external clinical signs often observed.
These lesions are generally missing in the acute form.
For example, at Texas A&M University in 2003, researchers used photobiotin to develop a new way to bind inorganic and organic species onto solid substrates.
The most common method employed by physicists to calculate the probability of an atom ejecting an electron relies on `` Fermi 's golden rule ''.
Although based upon quantum mechanics, the method treats a light quantum as an electromagnetic wave that causes an atom and its constituent electrons to transition from one energy state -LRB- `` eigenstate '' -RRB- to another.
It is also important to note that the particle nature of light can not explain the dependence on polarization with regard to the direction electrons are emitted, a phenomenon that has been considered useful in gathering polarization data from black holes and neutron stars., ` Nature', Vol. 411, 2001-06-07, pp. 662-665..
Nonetheless, the notion that the photoelectric effect demonstrates the particle nature of light persists in many introductory textbooks.
-LRB- In contrast, steam reforming usually or always uses a fossil fuel to obtain hydrogen. -RRB-.
Photoelectrolysis is sometimes known colloquially as the ` hydrogen holy grail' for its potential to yield a viable alternative to petroleum as a source of energy ; such an energy source would supposedly come without the sociopolitically-undesirable effects of extracting and using petroleum.
The engraving is usually made in copper or brass.
The process can be done in open trays but is much more effective if the etchant -LRB- often ferric chloride -RRB- is sprayed onto the metal.
When ferric chloride is used as the etchant, no metal parts other than titanium can be used in the etching equipment.
Decorative engraving is often filled by spray-painting then sanding to remove the paint from the raised parts of the engraving., 1902 -RSB- -RSB- Another method produces a deep engraving with sloped shoulders.
In this method the metal -LRB- usually zinc or magnesium -RRB- is held face-down and a mixture of nitric acid and a soap-like oil is splashed onto it.
Decorative engravings made by this method may go through a second process to produce a decorative background.
The resist for the background may be another photoengraving or may be randomly splashed-on.
Decorative engravings of this type may also be spray-painted and sanded as in the previous method.
Photogrammetric data with dense range data from scanners complement each other.
Photogrammetry is more accurate in the x and y direction while range data is generally more accurate in the z direction.
This range data can be supplied by techniques like LiDAR, Laser Scanners -LRB- using time of flight, triangulation or interferometry -RRB-, White-light digitizers and any other technique that scans an area and returns x, y, z coordinates for multiple discreet points -LRB- commonly called `` point clouds '' -RRB-.
Photos can clearly define the edges of buildings when the point cloud footprint can not.
Because Metol is relatively toxic and can cause skin sensitisation, modern commercial developers often use phenidone or Dimezone S instead.
Hydroquinone can also be toxic to the human operator as well as environment ; some modern developers replace it with ascorbic acid, or vitamin C. This, however, suffers from poor stability.
Ascorbate developers may have the advantage of being compensating and sharpness-enhancing, as oxidation by-products formed during development are acidic, meaning they retard development in and adjacent to areas of high activity.
In certain locations, such as California state parks, commercial photography is subject to insurance requirements and usually also requires a permit.
According to the ASMP, a property release may be a requirement in such a situation.
Citizen journalism and the increase in user contribution and submission of amateur photos to news sites is becoming more widespread.
However, the widespread use of cameras as a way of reporting news did not come until the advent of smaller, more portable cameras that used the enlargeable film negative to record images.
The introduction of the 35 mm Leica camera in the 1930 's made it possible for photographers to move with the action, taking shots of events as they were unfolding.
Research and prototyping processes often use contact lithography, because it uses inexpensive hardware and can achieve high optical resolution.
The resolution is approximately the square root of the product of the wavelength and the gap distance.
Hence, contact printing offers the best resolution, because its gap distance is approximately zero -LRB- neglecting the thickness of the photoresist itself -RRB-.
In addition, nanoimprint lithography may revive interest in this familiar technique, especially since the cost of ownership is expected to be low.
Fantasy photomontaged postcards were popular in the Victorian and Edwardian periods.The preeminent producer in this period was the Bamforh Company, in Holmfirth, West Yorksihire, and New York.
But the high point came during World War I, when photographers in France, Great Britain, Germany, Austria, and Hungary produced a profusion of postcards showing soldiers on one plane and lovers, wives, chldren, families, or parents on another.Marie-Monique Huss, Histoires de famille : cartes postales et culture de guerre -LRB- Paris : Noesis, 2000 -RRB-. Many of the early examples of fine-art photomontage consist of photographed elements superimposed on watercolours, a combination returned to by -LRB- e.g. -RRB-.
The other major exponents were John Heartfield, Hannah Höch, Kurt Schwitters, Raoul Hausmann and Johannes Baader.
A later term coined in Europe was `` photocollage '' ; which usually referred to large and ambitious works that added typography and brushwork or even actual objects stuck to the photomontage.
However, tracking devices add cost, and requiremaintenance, so it is more common for PV arrays to have fixed mountsthat tilt the array and face due South in the Northern Hemisphere -LRB- inthe Southern Hemisphere, they should point due North -RRB-.
PV arrays that approach or exceed one megawatt often usesolar trackers.Accounting for clouds, and the fact that most of the world is not onthe equator, and that the sun sets in the evening, the correct measureof solar power is insolation - the average number ofkilowatt-hours per square meter per day.
Typical solar panels have an average efficiency of 12 %, withthe best commercially available panels at 20 %.
Such a panel may be expected to produce 1kWh every day, on average, after taking into account the weather andthe latitude.In the Sahara desert, with less cloud cover and a better solarangle, one can obtain closer to 8.3 kWh/m2/day.
Typical nightlife available in Ayutthaya : \ nThe city has a couple of discos which are popular with the younger trendier crowd.
Sing-a-Songs are popular with Thai males.
Down by the river there are few bars which are popular with tourists who fancy a beer.
It uses a special format for storing them, and people update the database using that type of file.
The most common usage of Oscar is for warez software.
Phrozen Crew was one of the first warez groups use the Oscar format to release thousands of license keys at once.
Later, after Shumaker moved on to other business interests, as an opening act for such artists as MC Hammer and Run-D.M.C..
The two rappers, Reznik and Valente, joined forces with another band in 1991, and later that year recycled DJ Roach Clip from thier rap days.
In the aftermath of the siege, Phuthi people dispersed widely over what is contemporary southern Lesotho and the northern Transkei region, in order to escape capture by the colonial powers.
` Phyllomedusa sauvagii', commonly known as the ` Waxy Monkey Leaf Frog', is a hylid frog belonging to the subfamily of South and Central American leaf frogs, Phyllomedusinae that inhabits the Chaco -LRB- dry prairie -RRB- of Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia and Paraguay.
The subfamily consists of around 50 species in three well known genera, ` Phyllomedusa', ` Agalychnis' and ` Pachymedusa'. Walls, J.G. -LRB- 1996 -RRB- Red-eyes and other leaf-frogs.
The vast majority of known species, including ` Phyllomedusa sauvagei', belong to the ` Phyllomedusa' genus.
In common with other phyllomedusines, it presents physiological and behavioural adaptations to limit water loss including impermeabilisation of the skin by lipid secretions, excretion of uric acid -LRB- uricotelism -RRB- and diurnal torpor.Blaylock, L. A., Ruibal, R. and Platt-Aloia, K. -LRB- 1976 -RRB- Skin structure and wiping behavior of Phyllomedusinae frogs.
They range in size from 8 -- 25 mm and are blackish or reddish-brown in colour, without prominent markings, and often rather hairy ventrally.
They may cause significant damage when emerging in large numbers.
The larvae -LRB- called white grubs -RRB- feed on the roots of grasses and other plants.
As the cells crawled across an agar plate, the researchers subjected them to cold, dry conditions for the first 10 minutes of every hour.
Indeed, many of the cells throttled back right on the hour in anticipation of another bout of cold weather.
When conditions stayed stable for a while, the slime-mold amoebas gave up on their hourly braking, but when another single jolt of cold was applied, they resumed the behavior and correctly recalled the 60-minute interval.
The amoebas were also able to respond to other intervals, ranging from 30 to 90 minutes.
Like other fish, sharks extract oxygen from seawater as it passes over their gills.
Due to their size and the nature of their metabolism, sharks have a higher demand for oxygen than most fish and they can not rely on ambient water currents to provide an adequate supply of oxygenated water.
The process of ensuring an adequate flow of the gills by forward movement is known as ram ventilation.
The outflow is strong enough to still allow for respiration ; it is believed that the reason for this behaviour is that the fresh water helps remove parasites.The Undersea World of Jacques Cousteau Special, `` The Sleeping Sharks of the Yucatan, '' NBC. !.
For a number of years the support for these theories was evenly divided.
Intertwined in these four layers are people.
Users obviously have a role also by questioning and reporting suspicious people.
Aiding in identifying people as known versus unknown are identification systems.
Visitors are often required to wear a visitor badge.
Depending on jurisdiction and university, entry may follow directly from secondary school or require pre-requisite undergraduate education.
The former commonly take five or six years to complete.
Programs that require previous undergraduate education -LRB- typically a three or four year degree, often in Science -RRB- are usually four or five years in length.
Hence, gaining a basic medical degree may typically take from five to eight years, depending on jurisdiction and university.
The value of the opinions of physicians, surgeons, veterinarians, optometrists and other signatories of this petition is not clear.
Referring to the number of people on the ` Scientific Dissent from Darwinism' list and their claimed relevance, University of Minnesota biology professor PZ Myers writes, `` Not only is the number that they cite pathetically small, but they rely on getting scientists whose expertise is n't relevant. ''.
Addressing a specific example, Myers says of neurosurgeon Michael Egnor, who signed both lists, that `` The Discovery Institute may like to trumpet his expertise in neurosurgery as an indicator of the significance of his dissent from evolutionary biology, but I think I 'd rather trumpet his ignorance of evolutionary biology as an indicator of the uselessness of the Discovery Institute 's list.
He 's like Michael Behe, in that we can plop mountains of information in front of him, and he 'll just blithely claim it does n't exist.
The three major employers of career physicists are academic institutions, government laboratories, and private industry, with the largest employer being the last.
` Star Wars' has various action sounds in space that the characters react to and are apparently aware of.
But sound, as a pressure wave, must propagate through some form of matter.
Distinctions based on geologic age also correspond to physiographic distinctions where the forms are so recent as to be in their first erosion cycle, as is generally the case with sheets of glacial drift.
A maturely dissected plateau may grade without a break from rugged mountains on the one hand to mildly rolling farm lands on the other.
So also, forms which are not classified together may be superficially similar ; for example, a young coastal plain and a peneplain.
Although possible pneumatic indentations have been found in ` Plateosaurus' and ` Thecodontosaurus', the indentations are very small.
Epidemiological studies showed a protective effect against breast cancer.
` In vitro' studies concluded that females with current or past breast cancer should be aware of the risks of potential tumor growth when taking soy products, as they can stimulate the growth of estrogen receptor-positive cells in vitro.
Finally, and most noticeably, phytosaurs had nostrils placed near or above the level of the eyes, in contrast to crocodiles where the nostrils are near the end of the snout.
The best value at the end of the 19th century was due to William Shanks, who took 15 years to calculate ? with 707 digits, although due to a mistake only the first 527 were correct.
-LRB- To avoid such errors, modern record calculations of any kind are often performed twice, with two different formulas.
If the results are the same, they are likely to be correct. -RRB-.
While Fiat and Macchi built more advanced aircraft, they still tended to have conventional, often obsolete structures, even if of all-metal construction.
One of the major technical innovations that helped to create the sound of the modern piano was the use of a strong iron frame.
The increased structural integrity of the iron frame allowed the use of thicker, tenser, and more numerous strings.
The single piece cast iron frame was patented in 1825 in Boston by Alpheus Babcock, combining the metal hitch pin plate -LRB- 1821, claimed by Broadwood on behalf of Samuel Hervé -RRB- and resisting bars -LRB- Thom and Allen, 1820, but also claimed by Broadwood and Érard -RRB-.
The main theme -LRB- like the other themes in this work common to both versions -RRB- is short by Rachmaninoff 's standards but already shows the sequential devices and arch-like design inherent in his later works.
Norris, ` Rachmaninoff', 107. \ n'Andante cantabile' -LRB- D major -RRB- \ n : This reflective nocturne is only 74 bars long.
` Allegro scherzando' -LRB- F-sharp minor' F-sharp major -RRB- -LSB- 1917 version : ` allegro vivace' -RSB- \ n : Rachmaninoff replaced an initially drab opening with a ` fortissimo' passage alternating between time signatures of 9/8 and 12/8.
It also came too late in the movement to have the right expansive effort prevalent in the other concertos.
The second subject is introduced by the piano, making its way to the expected key of F major.
This movement is approximately 10 minutes. # II.
Bassoons and flutes enter one after another as the piano goes into a more acute mezzoforte run, dense with repeated notes, octaves and fourths.
This movement subtly slips in and out of the minor several times.
One of the secondary themes of the concerto 's first movement is a march that often reminds people of the then unwritten Marseillaise.Steinberg -LRB- 1998, 315 -RRB- Beethoven references this concerto in his own Fourth Piano Concerto.
Also both Mozart 's 25th and Beethoven 's 5th concerti have a strong march-like theme in the first movement that is first played in minor and then soon appears gloriously in major.
In addition to omitting the tempi for two of the movements, Mozart also, in Tyson 's words, `` did not write any notes for the piano 's left hand in a great many measures throughout the work. ''.
-LRB- NY : The Pierpont Morgan Library in association with Dover Publications, 1991 -RRB-, pp. 8-11 ; 57-68. There is in fact no other Mozart piano concerto of which so much of the solo part was left unfinished by the composer.
The 1794 first edition had these gaps filled in, and most Mozart scholars such as Alfred Einstein and Alan Tyson have assumed that the additions were made by the publisher Johann André.
Einstein is on record as finding André 's completion somewhat wanting : `` For the most part, this version is extremely simple and not too offensive, but at times -- for example, in the accompaniment of the Larghetto theme -- it is very clumsy, and the whole solo part would gain infinitely by revision and refinement in Mozart 's own style. ''.
All he reportedly had were three sketch books and various separate sheets of manuscript paper.Harrison, 253.
Although composition at that time was for the most part out of the question, sketches for the finale of the concerto are on the back of the manuscript sheets of his cadenza for Liszt 's Hungarian Rhapsody No. 2.
In 1966, the popular folk-rock group The Lovin' Spoonful, recorded his song `` Bald Headed Lena '' on their second album, ` Daydream'.
The third movement is in Rondo form and is in the tonic key, C major.
The second theme is in G major and contains an Alberti bass in the left hand.
The third theme is in a minor key and modulates through many different keys before modulating into C major.
The first theme appears again followed by a coda and finally ends in C major.
The piece contains four movements, a structure often used by Beethoven, and imitated by contemporaries such as Schubert, in contrast to the more usual three -LRB- or two -RRB- movements of Mozart and Haydn sonatas.
In addition to the thematic connections within the movements and the use of traditional Romantic formal structures, Charles Rosen has described how much of the piece is organized around the motif of a descending third -LRB- major or minor -RRB-.
This descending third is quite ubiquitous throughout the work, but most clearly recognizeable in the following sections : the opening fanfare of the Allegro ; in the Scherzo 's mocking imitation of the aforementioned fanfare, as well as in its trio theme ; in bar two of the Adagio ; and in the Fugue in both its introductory bass octave-patterns and in the main subject, as the seven-note runs which end up on notes descended by thirds.
Fragments of American folk songs are intertwined throughout the movement, although often grotesquely altered with respect to rhythm, pitch, and harmonic connotation.
Drawing from his college days at Yale University, Ives also quotes a number of fraternity songs including the Delta Kappa Epsilon tune `` A band of brothers in DKE, '' which appears prominently near the beginning of the movement.
It is notable that one of his sketches for the movement includes the subtitle `` Medley on the Campus Fence, '' referring to the songs popular among Yale students during his college years.
At the halfway point he was tied with Larsen for first with 6/9. Petrosian fell out of contention early, after a loss in the third round to Portisch and another loss in the seventh round after Larsen made a queen sacrifice.Fischer lost three games in a row in the second week of play -LRB- rounds 6, 7, and 8 -RRB- and was next to last with 3.5 / 9 at the halfway point.
Fischer and Larsen won the most games -LRB- seven each -RRB-, but Fischer could not make up for his slow start.
Sharing the fourth and fifth prizes, Portisch and Unzicker were the only other players with a plus score.
Compared to other expression systems such as S2-cells from ` Drosophila melanogaster' or Chinese Hamster Ovary cells, ` Pichia' usually gives much better yields.
Cell lines from multicellular organisms usually require complex rich media, including amino acids, vitamins and growth factors.
At North American tracks, races which are run on a turf -LRB- grass -RRB- course must sometimes be moved to the main dirt course, usually due to heavy rain or other adverse weather conditions ; sometimes this switch is made after pick 6 wagering is closed.
Moving from turf to dirt greatly affects the wagering decisions of astute handicappers, as many horses perform differently according to the racing surface.
If only one race is moved, bettors who successfully pick the other five race winners will win or share the full six-winner pool, including carryovers.
If two races are moved, bettors who pick the other four winners will win or share in that day 's six-winner pool, but ` no' carryover, and the previous carryover pool only goes to the next program.
Originally on the Microdata implementation, and subsequently implemented on all Pick systems, a BASIC-like language called Data/BASIC with numerous syntax extensions for smart terminal interface and database operations was the primary programming language for applications.
Nor did it directly provide common relational capabilities such as joins.
This was because powerful data dictionary redefinitions for a field allowed joins via the execution of a calculated lookup in another file.
A simple text editor for file-system records was provided, but the editor was only suitable for system maintenance, and could not lock records, so most applications were written with the other tools such as Batch, RPL, or the BASIC language so as to ensure data validation and allow record locking.
It is in widespread use in Melanesian pidgin and creole languages such as Tok Pisin of Papua New Guinea, as the word for `` child '' -LRB- or just young, as in the phrase ` pikinini pik', meaning ` piglet' -RRB-.
In Surinamese Sranan Tongo the term ` pikin' may refer to ` children' as well as to ` small' or ` little'.
` Pickens County' is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama.
As of 2000, the population was 20,949.
Its county seat is Carrollton, and it is a prohibition, or dry county.
Garnett had a previous leg injury and rode his horse during the charge, despite knowing that conspicuously riding a horse into heavy enemy fire would mean almost certain death.
Armistead is known for leading his brigade with his cap on the tip of his sword.
Per his dying wishes, General Longstreet delivered Armistead 's Bible and other personal effects to General Hancock 's wife, Almira., Brigade Ministry : Examples of personal ministry among the troops, accessed January 5, 2009.
Trimble and Pettigrew were the most senior casualties of the day ; Trimble lost a leg, and Pettigrew received a minor wound to the hand -LRB- only to die from a bullet to the abdomen suffered in a minor skirmish during the retreat to Virginia -RRB-. Sears, p. 467 ; Eicher, pp. 548-49.
Pickled eggs have also traditionally been found behind the bar in Public Houses, and eaten with a pint of beer.
Finding a pub that still serves them is becoming more difficult as people 's tastes change.
The play is very character driven, which shows Inge 's love of analyzing people and how they react to different situations. # ` The Point of View of the Author :' This aspect refers to where the author places the audience in the action Rush, David.
Most of the characters behave as the audience would expect them to, with a few exceptions.
One thing leads to another, and the audience is able to follow along relatively easily. # ` The Substance/Texture of the Characters :' Most of Inge 's characters in `` Picnic '' are what Rush calls `` three-dimensional '' because they are `` fully textured human beings, with ideas, feelings, personalities, passions, and foibles that are very similar to ours '' Rush, David.
This signifies a Realistic piece. # ` Form -- Presentational/Representational :' Rush discusses form in that it is `` the relationship between the people on the stage -LRB- actors/characters -RRB- and the people watching -LRB- audience -RRB- '' Rush, David.
Carbondale : Southern Illinois University Press, 2005. p. 189.. A presentational play might have some of the characters speak directly to the audience, and help them on their way through the story.
Carbondale : Southern Illinois University Press, 2005. p. 189.. Realistic plays are often representational. # ` The Playwright 's Definition of the World :' By using a certain style, the playwright is able to show the audience just how he or she feels about the world.
Inge uses Realism to show that society 's rules are not always the best, and that people will live happier, more fulfilling lives if they are able to break out of the restraints.
The cellar contains remnants of convict shackles as prisoners being transported from Sydney to Berrima prison would often be held in Picton overnight.
The hotel is also the location of Scharer 's Little Brewery, one of the first microbreweries in Australia and winner of numerous awards for its Burragorang Bock and Scharer 's Lager beers.
Also in the vicinity are manufacturers of pallets, caskets and other wood products.
As exemplified by Skarvanesi 's painting, which obviously was done from stuffed birds, the pied raven was an object of interest to collectors.
In the mid nineteenth century, every Faroe male of hunting age was ordered by royal decree to shoot at least one raven or two other predatory birds per year or be fined four skillings.
In the autumn of 1916, another bird was seen at Velbasta?ur and on Koltur.
The region contains major industrial centres, notably Turin, home to the FIAT automobile works.
It is possible to get to Switzerland via a normal road, that crosses the Oriental Piedmont starting from Arona up to Locarno, on the borders with Italy.
The triad is home to an extensive freeway network, which is in the process of undergoing a major expansion.
Its geology is complex, with numerous rock formations of different materials and ages intermingled with one another.
The last major event in the history of the Piedmont was the break-up of Pangaea, when North America and Africa began to separate.
The series of Mesozoic basins is almost entirely located within the Piedmont region.
Also told is the story of another small town, similar to that of ` This Present Darkness' and called Bacon 's Corner, and a resident named Tom Harris.
Seeming to have no connection with other events at first, a young police officer, Ben Cole, is convinced what is being brushed off as a suicide is actually a murder, and ends up losing his job over the issue ... which brings him to the side of the embattled Christian school.
Caught in the crossfire is a little girl who 's been forced into a curriculum of `` meditation techniques '' and `` inner spiritual guides '' that control her moods, attitudes, and actions, the little Amber Brandon, and her mother Lucy who realizes this lawsuit and the people who are `` helping '' her may be much, much more than she bargained for.
Before the paths that Sally Roe and Tom Harris -LSB- and the others -RSB- are on collide, the ` Ashton Clarion' editor and his wife, Marshall and Kate Hogan -LRB- from ` This Present Darkness' -RRB-, make a return appearance as veteran fighters in this war against the powers of darkness that threaten freedom of religion everywhere.
He got his break in 1998 when Oswaldo Piazza decided to promote several teenage players to the main line-up of the team, particularly after the team had secured the Apertura cup and thus a place in the final game.
This generation of players included Manuel Barreto, Mario Gomez, Jorge Araujo, Anthony Matellini, Luis Cordero, Oswaldo Carrion, Francisco Bazan, among others.
Alva continued getting chances, despite his controversial playing style ; he showed much skill but often did not know when to let go of the ball.
He formed a powerful striking duo playing alongside Eduardo Esidio, aiding him to score the record amount of goals in Peruvian football history -LRB- and the 2nd highest amount of goals by any player worldwide that year -RRB- while scoring many of his own - 17 in the Peruvian tournament and one in the Merconorte championship - and leading Universitario to their historic third championship in a row, capturing both the Apertura and Clausura titles.
After a rapid succession of explosive works, such as the three cantatas on poetry by René Char, the first two piano sonatas, and other chamber music, compositions have tended to be contemplated and expanded over a long period of time, during which they were performed in various stages of development.' ... explosante-fixe.
..', now resembling a flute concerto with electronics, was first published in 1971 as a sketch in the journal ` Tempo' as a memorial tribute to Stravinsky, then worked out in various versions, including one for mixed octet with electronics performed in 1973.
' Éclat / Multiples' has remained a large fragment, and 'D érive II' -LRB- 1988/2002/2006 -RRB- and ` Répons' -LRB- 1980/82/84 -RRB- have been performed in various stages of development. The desire to expand unrealized possibilities has also lead Boulez to create related works in series.
The material contained in ` Anthemes' for solo violin was later expanded into an extended composition for violin and electronics ` Anthemes 2' and Boulez is currently developing it further into a large-scale work for violin and orchestra.Tom Service :, ` The Guardian', 28 August 2008 ` Incises,' a short work for solo piano, has since exploded into ` Sur Incises' for three percussive groups -LRB- pianos, harps, percussion -RRB- in two very extended movements.
After doing studies in psychology, Bruneau started his media career on various radio stations including Victoriaville 's CFDA, the defunct Trois-Rivieres 's CJTR and Montreal 's CKAC and CITE as a host and reporter.
For several years, Claude Charron, former Parti Québécois MNA and Cabinet Minister was paring with Bruneau on the late afternoon news.
He was also the host of other shows such as ` Qu'en pense le Quebec' and Y' a du soleil'.
In his 432 sorties, Clostermann was credited officially with 23 victories -LRB- 19 solo, 14 shared, most of them against fighters -RRB- and five `` probables '', with eight more `` damaged ''.
He also claimed 225 motor vehicles destroyed, 72 locomotives, five tanks and two E-Boats -LRB- fast torpedo boats -RRB-.
From 1870 onwards Cuypers' style became more influenced by the native Gothic styles of the Netherlands as well as Gothic styles from other countries like Norway and Italy.
He also experimented with centralizing ground-plans and other non-conventional layouts.
He did not include at all' a priori' disciplines such as logic and mathematics within these theoretical groups in physics which can be tested experimentally.
Quine, on the other hand, conceived this theoretical group as a unit of a whole human knowledge.
Then, all the efforts of French officials to convince their king to pay for another Apostle statue in the Lateran and employ Le Gros to make it, led to nothing.
He would finally have to recognise that he was fighting a losing battle against Rusconi, who was by then clearly favoured by Pope Clement XI.
In his ` Prodromus' he developed 75 tables, which not only grouped plants into families but also allowed for an easy and rapid identification by means of the morphological characters, the same he used to compose the groups.
He was subsequently suspended indefinitely from the Iowa Hawkeyes by athletic department officials, which was atypical, as the school usually waits for the legal process to play out before making a decision, but the school took swift action because of the severity of the charge.
Amid resolutions urging students to boycott the men 's basketball games, the petition had urged season ticket holders to ask the athletic department for a refund or to transfer their tickets to another athletic team, actions Pierce 's attorney Alfredo Parrish labeled `` absolutely ridiculous '' because '' -LSB- they -RSB- do n't know the facts '' before '' -LSB- reaching -RSB- a conclusion. ''.
In those games, he averaged 20.8 points a game on better than 50-percent shooting, and almost 5 rebounds per game.
Alison Crawford, cbc.ca, accessed June 1, 2009 '' Poilieve argued that the term was commonly used for `` issues that stick to one. '' ''.
CTV.ca News Staff, CTV.ca retrieved Fri May. 29 2009 '' `` CBC News, CBC.ca retrieved Fri May. 29 2009 '' Over the previous years, the term itself had been used by a number of prominent Canadian public figures to indicate a sticky situation.
But it does n't mean to say you have to become slavishly connected like some kind of `` tar baby '' with them. ''.
By October 1860, Rossier had returned to Nagasaki, where he took photographs of the harbour on behalf of the British Consul, George S. Morrison, for which Rossier was paid $ 70. In a letter dated 13 October 1860, Morrison wrote, '' ... considering that M. Rossier 's time is specifically devoted to other purposes, and that he was occupied with them for several days ... as he is not a tradesman here for the sale of photographs, -LSB- I -RSB- was not in a position to bargain ... ''.
-LRB- Bennett -RRB-. Seventy dollars was a substantial sum ; to put it in some perspective, fourteen years later Henry Smith Munroe, an American employee of the Japanese government, was considering buying a complete set of 500 photographs by Uchida Kuichi that cost $ 250 or three-quarters of Munroe 's monthly salary as a well-paid foreign advisor -LRB- Dobson, 20 ; Clark, Fraser, and Osman, 137-138 -RRB-.
Bennett speculates that ` Negretti and Zambra' may have delayed publishing the images because of problems with the quality of the negatives, either because they were damaged in transit or because of Rossier 's known difficulties in finding the correct photographic chemicals in Asia -LRB- Bennett -RRB-.
An 1861 edition of the Illustrated London News included several engravings under the collective title ` Domestic Life in China', the images having been taken from Rossier 's stereographs.Bennett OJP, 119.
He has no claim to be the originator of French comedy -- the ` Corrivaux' of Jean de la Taille dates from 1562 -- but Larivey naturalized the Italian comedy of intrigue in France.
Despite closely following his Italian models, he succeeded in conveying a lively spoken language, often full of saucy humor.
Larivey 's merit lies in the use of popular language in dialogue, which often rises to real excellence, and was not without influence on Moliere and Regnard.
He accompanied the prince on his many travels, to France -LRB- Paris -RRB-, Bohemia -LRB- Prague -RRB- and Austria -LRB- Vienna -RRB-, where his two first comic operas were performed in Schönbrunn : ` Le Déguisement pastoral' -LRB- 1756 -RRB- en ` Les Amours champetres' -LRB- 1758 -RRB-.
His works were known to Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Joseph Haydn.
Carl Ditters von Dittersdorf notes him as one of the most important virtuosos of his time.
In 1848, in spite of his reluctance, he was elected to the Constituent Assembly, by so large a number of votes -LRB- 204,471 -RRB- that he felt himself obliged to accept the seat.
He occupied some of his leisure in preparing his own memoirs, and a certain treatise on ` Social and Political Morality', intended for the people, a work he had much at heart, but judged at last to be beyond his strength.
On his death, it was feared that his funeral would be the signal for some political disturbance ; but the government took immediate measures, and all went quietly.
` Piers Plowman' likely functioned for Crowley as a reformist text with polemic and prophetic qualities -LRB- although he denies the latter in his preface -RRB-, but the text and apparatus do not overtly convey that impression.
The assertion of propagandistic editorial intervention by Crowley exaggerates both his glosses, and the evidence that he deliberately deleted `` Catholic '' elements of Langland 's poem -- i.e., a few references to purgatory, transubstantiation, and some praise for monasticism.
In the second and third editions, where the glosses were substantially increased, almost half are biblical citations.
Shakira managed to produce the majority of the album.
When promoting the album, Shakira was only given a small auditorium, the guests consisting of people who had heard about the press conference of the album.
At 71 in the fall of 1943, Mondrian moved into his second and final New York studio at 15 East 59th Street, and set about again to create the environment he had learned over the years was most congenial to his modest way of life and most stimulating to his art.
It was the best space, Mondrian said, that he had ever inhabited.
According to Carel van Mander, it is likely that they were instructed by their grandmother Mayken Verhulst van Aelst, who was also an artist.
` Napoleon For and Against' was an account of how French historians of different ages and views have regarded the French emperor.
From Napoleon 's time to the present French historians have presented Napoleon as either a Corsican adventurer who brought death and destruction to France or as a patriotic Frenchman who brought glory and prosperity.
Geyl used his book to advance his view that all historians are influenced by the present when writing history and thus all historical writing is transitory.
For Geyl the best that historians could do was to critically examine their beliefs and urge their readers to do likewise.
` Pietro Mascagni' -LRB- December 7, 1863 - August 2, 1945 -RRB- was an Italian composer most noted for his operas.
` L'amico Fritz' and ` Iris' have been popular in Europe since their respective premieres.
In fact, Mascagni himself claimed that at one point ` Iris' was performed in Italy more often than ` Cavalleria' -LRB- cf. Stivender -RRB-.
His work differs from that of some of his kinsmen, however, in showing what would have been seen by those outside Siena as a more modern approach.
Pigeons have the capacity to share attention between different dimensions of a stimulus, but -LRB- like humans and other animals -RRB- their performance with multiple dimensions is worse than with a single stimulus dimension.
Pigeons can discriminate between other individual pigeons, and can use the behaviour of another individual as a cue to tell them what response to make.
Pigeons can remember large numbers of individual images for a long time, e.g. hundreds of images for periods of several years.
In the past wealthy landowners often had pigeon houses and kept pigeons.
However, the flavor of the meat of the birds was prized by many people and so organized commercial enterprises marketing squab meat arose.Ten pairs of pigeons can produce eight squabs each month without being fed especially by the pigeon keepers.
For a greater yield, commercially raised squab may be produced in a two-nest system, where the mother lays two new eggs in a second nest while the squabs are still growing in the first nest, fed by their father.
Establishing two breeding lines has also been suggested as a strategy, where one breeding line is selected for prolificacy and the other is selected for `` parental performance ''.
Network owners leave their networks unsecured for a variety of reasons.
They may desire to share their internet access with their neighbours or the general public or may be intimidated by the knowledge and effort required to secure their network while making it available to their own laptops.
Given the rarity of such cases where hosts have been held liable for the activities of piggybackers, they may be unaware or unconcerned about the risks they incur by not securing their network, or of a need for an option to protect their network.
More recently, particularly in the United States since the late 1970s, and in other developed nations since the 1980s, an alternative to Pigovian taxation has arisen : the creation of a market for `` pollution rights. ''.
Pollution rights markets are a part of the field of Environmental Economics generally, and Free-market environmentalism specifically.
Pika signed his name to numerous arrangements by Khotkevych -LRB- Od Kyiva do Luben, Oj Dzhygune, -RRB- - Khotkevych 's arrangements were banned from being played after 1934 -RRB- and other acreditted to being the composer of Tripak - Oi Hop ty-ny-ny -LRB- original recorded by Sadowsky 's choir in 1911 an arrangement of Kropovnytsky 's -RRB-.
Discharging sparks and thunderbolts may be a sign of wariness from the Pokémon.
Pokédex :' When several of these Pokémon gather, their electricity could build and cause lightning storms.
There are several visitor centers on Pikes Peak, some with a gift shop and restaurant.
These centers are located at 6 mile, 12 mile and the summit itself, and there are several ways to ascend the mountain.
Automobiles can be driven to the summit via the Pikes Peak Highway, a 19 mile -LRB- 31 kilometer -RRB- road which starts a few miles up Ute Pass at Cascade.
This road, which was unpaved after the halfway point, was made famous worldwide by the short film ` Climb Dance' featuring Ari Vatanen racing his Peugeot up the steep, twisty slopes as part of the annual Pikes Peak International Hillclimb race.
Pikmin are very social creatures, seemingly interacting with other Pikmin of all colors if left alone, but focus their attention entirely on Olimar when called into active duty.
Pikmin naturally form groups within their own color, but cooperate well with Pikmin of another color.
If allowed to separate into groups during periods of inactivity, they separate along color lines, but do not object to being placed together.
When Pikmin of any kind drink nectar they transform into flower Pikmin which are faster than leaf or bud pikmin, and can sometimes be stronger than the other pikmin.
Pikmin come in several colors, each with their own strengths and weaknesses.
The first species introduced are purple Pikmin, who move slower than normal Pikmin, but have ten times the strength and weight of other Pikmin, giving them the ability to pick up much heavier objects and attack and destroy obstacles and other enemies with fewer numbers.
White Pikmin are themselves immune to poison, can locate buried treasure with their special eyes, and can run faster than other Pikmin.
The only way to `` keep '' them is if they are transformed into other Pikmin species with Candypop Buds.
The cladistic analysis - essentially limited to characters of the elbow joint - found these to be phylogenetically quite uninformative ; it was not even possible to distinguish Neornithes from Enantiornithes.
Still, it provided a valuable hint, not for the phylogeny but for the morphology of ` P. barbarulna' : apart from the autapomorphies, the elbow joint of the prehistoric bird is very similar to that of such little-related birds as the Little Chachalaca, the Dusky Grouse and the prehistoric ` Palaeortyx gallica' -LRB- all galliforms -RRB-, the Little Tinamou -LRB- a tinamou -RRB-, and the Western Crowned Pigeon -LRB- a columbiform -RRB- - but not the Wood Pigeon -LRB- another columbiform -RRB-.
According to some Roman sources, Seneca, ` Hercules Furens' 235ff. ; Seneca, ` Hercules Oetaeus' 1240 ; Pliny, ` Nat.
One part of the split mountain is Gibraltar and the other is either Monte Hacho or Jebel Musa.
These two mountains taken together have since then been known as the Pillars of Hercules, though other natural features have been associated with the name. ''.
Rather like the lesser punishment called the stocks, the pillory consisted of hinged wooden boards that formed holes through which the head and/or various limbs were inserted ; then the boards were locked together to secure the captive.
Pillories were set up to hold petty criminals in marketplaces, crossroads, and other public places.
They were often placed on platforms to increase public visibility of the punished offender.
-LRB- See photo, right. -RRB- Often a placard detailing the crime was placed nearby ; these punishments generally lasted only a few hours.
A ` pillow' is a large cushion support for the head, usually used while sleeping in a bed, or for the body as used on a couch or chair.
Outside the USA these are generally considered a type of cushion, with the term ` pillow' reserved for the pillows on a bed.
In Tudor England, pillows became widely-used ; it was believed only women giving birth should use one.
Traditional Chinese pillows are often hard boxes made from stone, wood, metal, or porcelain instead of stuffed fabric.
` P. aurantiaca' is widely grown as an ornamental plant in gardens for its very decorative flowers.
It is on the noxious weeds and/or quarantine lists of Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington and regions of British Columbia, with cultivation usually prohibited.
In Australia, the plant is considered a noxious weed in Tasmania and it is quarantined from the country.
` Pimento cheese' is a common food in the Southern United States.
The recipe for most pimento cheese spreads has few ingredients : sharp cheddar cheese, mayonnaise, pimentos, salt and pepper.
A pimento cheese sandwich may be a quick and cheap lunch for children, or it may be served as an elegant cocktail finger food -LRB- with crusts trimmed, a bit of watercress, and cut into triangles -RRB-.
It is also a common snack in the Philippines, where it is referred to as cheese-pimiento.
Pimlico station was a late addition to the final section of the Victoria Line between Victoria and Brixton and is the only station on the line which does not have an interchange with another Underground and/or National Rail line.
There are two other entrances, in Lupus Street and on the other side of Bessborough Street.
These others have ramps as well as stairs, facilitating wheelchair access.
However, there are still a few steps to walk down to enter the ticket hall.
A ` pimp', also called a ` fleshmonger' or ` pander,' finds and manages women -LRB- often very young women -RRB- who are vulnerable and susceptible, for what ever reason, to extreme manipulation and engages them in prostitution -LRB- in brothels and on the streets -RRB- in order to profit from their earnings.
Pimping is illegal in most countries.
Other major companies from the USA which can be found embossed on insulators.
A few company names found embossed on insulators -LRB- and by no means a comprehensive listing -RRB- are A T & T, American Insulator, Armstrong, Brookfield, California, Good, Hawley, King City Glass Works -LRB- K.C.G.W. -RRB-, Kerr, Lynchburg, McLaughlin, N.E.G.M Co., Ohio Valley Glass Company -LRB- O.V.G.C. -RRB-, Pyrex, Sterling, Twiggs, Western Flint Glass, Whitall Tatum, and many other names from companies in the States.
Co.and others.
Other manufacturers include Telgraficos Nacionales -LRB- Mexico -RRB-, Zicme -LRB- South America -RRB-, Miva -LRB- Italy -RRB-, Isorex -LRB- France -RRB-, Agee -LRB- Australia -RRB-, and many more.
In this situation, the underlier is said to have ` pinned'.
Therefore, the writer may end up with a residual position in the underlier.
There is a chance that the price of the underlier may gap adversely, resulting in an unanticipated loss to the writer.
In other words, an option position may result in a large, undesired risky position in the underlier on the Monday following expiration regardless of the actions of the trader.
If it clearly rolls off to one side, a player may be inclined to stuff folded paper beneath the legs on the lower side to level the playfield.
The ball is put into play by use of the ` plunger', a spring-loaded rod that strikes the ball as it rests in an entry lane, or as in some newer games, by a button that signals the game logic to fire a solenoid that strikes the ball.
Manipulation of the ball may also be accomplished by nudging -LRB- physically pushing the cabinet -RRB-.
However, excessive nudging is generally penalized by the loss of the current player 's turn -LRB- known as 'til ting' -RRB- or ending of the entire game when the nudging is particularly violent -LRB- known as ` slam tilting' -RRB-.
Pinball 2000 uses a 19 inch CGA color monitor for graphics output, although it is even possible to exchange the built in monitors by a LCD if it can handle the low refresh rate -LRB- 15kHz -RRB- and resolution -LRB- 640x240 -RRB- of an arcade CGA monitor.
The used DCS2 hardware allows for full stereo output -LRB- whereas the old WPC system uses mono -RRB- and the Pinball 2000 cabinet was the first to be equipped with a real subwoofer in the cabinet -LRB- other pinball machines feature a broadband speaker to save money -RRB-.
The machines also offer networking support, a feature that can be used to easily run game tournaments -LRB- each connected machine then displays the total highscores and optional player pictures -RRB- or to play the machine via another computer connected using TELNET, so it 's even possible to control the pinball machine via webcam and internet.
Also other broken hardware -LRB- like switches, solenoids and the like -RRB- is displayed on the TV screen and marked on the drawn playfield for simplified maintenance.
They are related to tapas, the main difference being that pinchos are ordered and eaten individually, whilst tapas are usually a small portion of food to be shared.
In addition, tapas are served on a small dish, whist pinchos are generally arranged on bread slices.
Pindar wrote choral works such as paeans and other hymns for religious festivals.
Most of his writings were in honor of notable personages and victory odes in honor of winners at various games.
In addition to Hiero of Syracuse, other known patrons included Theron of Acragas, and Arcesilas of Cyrene.
Also another feature is there.
Also some lighting arrangements will be done.
During colonial times, the Pine Barrens was home to various industries.
Over time, however, the forest reclaimed almost all traces of the Pine Barrens' industrial past.
Ghost towns -- remnants of these industries -- can still be found at various locations, and one, Batsto Village, has been restored to its mid-19th century state.
` Pine Grove Township' is a township in Warren County, Pennsylvania, in the United States.
As of the 2000 census, the township population was 2,712.
Snow in the winter usually is light, and while the streets are plowed, you will not likely need to shovel your driveway.
Land line phone service is available with high speed internet is most areas.
US postal service offers P.O. boxes in Downtown Groveland and delivery to Pine Mountain Lake 's many neighborhood lock box centers within the gated community.
Furniture deliveries and other tradesmen need the owners to call in a pass for them at the Main Security Gate to gain entrance.
The `` garden city '' suburb of ` Pinelands' is located on the edge of the southern suburbs of Cape Town in South Africa and is known for its large thatched houses.
The suburb is primarily residential and is often praised for its peacefulness and abundance of trees.
Pinelands is one of the few areas in Cape Town in which sale of alcohol is prohibited and is a popular place for senior citizens to retire to.
While there are several retirement homes in the suburb, younger people are increasingly moving in.
American Alligators are not as common as they once were, but their population has rebounded since the 1960s.
The most common fish is Catfish, which are a native species but also stocked in local reservoirs.
Crayfish are common along river and creek banks.
A popular program at Pingree Park is the Challenge Ropes Course operated on the campus.
Many groups use the facilities including students from both Colorado State University and Poudre School District.
Additionally many recreational and corporate groups include a stop at the Ropes Course for use in team building exercises.
The course consists of several low and high elements built in 1989 with a large climbing wall and adjoining `` Giant Swing '' built in 2005.
They spot it going into another neighbour 's igloo while this neighbour, who has tufts on her head, is distracted hanging out the washing.
The other neighbour also has an egg, which is on a cot in the igloo.
The run-away egg jumps onto the cot, knocking the other neighbours egg off onto the floor.
Pingu then realises what has happened, explains, and he and the neighbour go to the other neighbours house, where the other egg has now hatched.
`` Disco Project '' was a major hit in Italy during the summer of 1982, and this implicitly obliged Pulga & Co. to put up a fictional band for TV performances.
Indeed they did - the song was mimed various times on Italian TV by four people -LRB- on bass, guitar, drums and keyboards -RRB- dressed up in black monk-like robes and black pointed hoods.
Also, the TV performances did not feature any choir or anyone lip-synching the lyrics, although the vocals were clearly heard.
The album 's other singles -- `` Do n't Let Me Get Me '', the Dallas Austin-produced `` Just like a Pill '', and `` Family Portrait '' -- were also radio and chart successes, with `` Just like a Pill '' becoming Pink 's first solo UK number-one hit.
Retrieved December 19, 2002. with worldwide sales of 13 million.Entertainment Editors ` BusinessWire'.
Retrieved September 22, 2003. It was the second best-selling album in the UK during 2002.
Not only this, but as women are becoming more educated, more employment opportunities have become available that once were out of reach for most women.
Increasingly, women have opportunities in traditionally male white-collar jobs and men have opportunities in traditionally female pink-collar jobs.
Although they ultimately settled on having Kyle kill the `` main zombie '' to bring back the others, Parker did not feel the resolution made sense and described it as a deus ex machina.
Parker said of the ending, `` This was another big one of those episodes where we were sort of -LRB- like -RRB-, ` How do we get out of this one ?' ''.
Parker said, `` We were pretty bummed out, and we kind of thought, well, we 're going to have a bad episode go on the air, and hopefully it wo n't alienate too many people, and we 'll try to get our viewers back for Thanksgiving.
But we were totally wrong, people totally loved it. ''.
Amongst the phocids, lactation varies from 4 to 50 days, whereas the otarids may lactate from 4 to 36 months.
To compensate for the short lactation period, the fat content of phocid milk is higher than in any other species of marine mammal -LRB- 45 -- 60 % fat -RRB-.
After lactation most female phocids make extensive migratory movements to feeding grounds for intensive foraging to recoup depleted energy reserves.
On the other hand, otariid feeding grounds are generally closer to shore and females go on foraging trips.
On the other end of the cavern, which seems darker and emptier, the gondolaman tells Pinocchio that the location of the jewel box is in that direction.
A doorman dressed in green informs Pinocchio that he can have fun like the other children -- as many toys as he wants, fame and stardom -- on the condition that when he is done playing, he returns and signs a paper contract.
Before he can grab a toy, the older boy catches him and gives Pinocchio another mug of the green liquid.
Pinocchio is startledand realizes he is seeing things ; he begins to hallucinate the faces of the children stretching and contorting in a variety of colors and Pinocchio blacks out.
The DNA profiles of both Pinot gris and blanc are identical to Pinot noir ; by Carole Meredith on the origins of grape varieties the other two major Pinots, ` Pinot moure' and ` Pinot teinturier', are also genetically very similar.S.
From those two sets of auditions, it was reported by ABS-CBN that fifty people were chosen for shortlist.
The initial reports of the massacre, which echoed the Polish claims that the murder victims were Bolshevik conspirators, were based on an account given by an American investigator, Franciszek -LRB- Francis -RRB- Fronczak, who had come to Europe in May 1918, with the permission of the State Department.
Polish National Committee, where he directed the organization 's Department of Public Welfare, and was considered `` very anti-semitic '' by his colleagues.
Fronczak, although not an eyewitness, accepted Luczynski 's claims that the aid distribution meeting was actually a meeting in which Bolsheviks were conspiring to obtain arms and to murder Pinsk 's small garrison, and himself claimed to have heard shots being fired from the Jewish meeting hall at Polish troops.
Fronczak, who also claimed to have heard a confession from a mortally wounded Jew when he arrived at the town square where the executions took place.
Charles Spencer, in ` The Daily Telegraph' described the show as `` one of the most punishingly unfunny evenings I have ever endured in a theatre. ''.
In ` The Guardian,' Michael Billington commented, `` Pinter 's people have been turned into lurching grotesques and the result does a grave disservice both to the writer and comic acting. '' ''.
What the critics are saying about Bill Bailey and co 's comedic take on the Nobel laureate 's characters.
It 's not pretty '' Benedict Nightingale in ` The Times' wrote : `` Last night I was sickened by some of the coarsest performances I have ever seen in a London playhouse '', before going on to praise the second half of the show. ''.
ControversiesBreed registries and white markingsMany breed registries do not, or at some time in the past did not, accept `` cropout '' horses with spots or `` excess '' white for registration, believing such animals were likely to be crossbreds, or due to a fear of producing Lethal White foals.
This exclusion of offspring from pedigreed parents led to the formation not only of the American Paint Horse Association, but other Pinto registries as well.
However, modern DNA testing has revealed that some breeds do possess genes for spotting patterns, such as a non-SB-1 sabino pattern in Arabians, and sabino, overo, and tobiano in Quarter Horses.
On the other hand, the Jockey Club 's Thoroughbred registry still does not officially recognize pinto as a registerable color, though they do allow white body spots to be recorded under the category of markings.The Welsh Pony and Cob Society of the UK also does not accept `` piebald '' or `` skewbald '' horses for registration.
The green to yellow-green leaves are needle-like, in bundles of three, 15-30 cm long, with finely toothed margins and often drooping.
A characteristic of the species is the occurrence of glaucous -LRB- bluish-green -RRB- epicormic shoots growing from the lower trunk, but in its natural area this only occurs as a consequence of fire or other damage.
In fact, this pine is one of the most fire-resistant conifers in the world.
The cones are 10-23 cm long, glossy chestnut-brown in colour, frequently remaining closed for several years -LRB- serotinous cones -RRB-.
The cones are ovoid-cylindrical, long and broad when closed, green or purple at first, ripening orange-buff when 16 months old, with numerous thin, fragile scales, each scale with a bristle-like spine long.
The seeds are long, with a wing ; they are mostly dispersed by the wind, but some are also dispersed by Clark 's Nutcrackers, which pluck the seeds out of the opening cones.
The nutcrackers use the seeds as a food resource, storing many for later use, and some of these stored seeds are not used and are able to grow into new plants.
However, in many stands current reproduction is not adequate to replace old and dying trees.
It is very important for regeneration of pinyon woods, as it stores large numbers of the seeds in the ground for later use, and excess seeds not used are in an ideal position to grow into new trees.
-LRB- Air-cooled carburetor engines are still in use in many small aircraft due to their reliability.
The Pinzgauer has a central tube chassis with a transaxle which distributes the weight more evenly and keeps the center of gravity as low as possible.
The 710 4x4 was the more popular variant, but the Pinzgauer was designed to have a very capable 6x6 configuration from the start.
The rear suspension on the back of the 6x6 712 is designed to provide maximum traction in the most demanding circumstances along with increasing its towing, load carrying, and off-road abilities.
There are more than 3,000 `` Padre Pio Prayer Groups '' worldwide, with three million members.
A 2006 survey by the magazine ` Famiglia Cristiana' found that more Italian Catholics pray to Padre Pio than to any other figure.
It re-entered Earth 's atmosphere and burned up over Africa on December 7 at approximately 19:51 UT -LRB- 2:51 p.m. EST -RRB- at an estimated location of 16.4 N, 18.6 E. The probe returned telemetry for about 25 hours of its 38 hour 6 minute journey.
The other 13 hours were blackout periods due to the location of the two tracking stations.
The returned information showed that the internal temperature remained at about 43 ° C over most of the period.
The trapped radiation starts at an altitude of several hundred miles from Earth -LRB- where the outer belt was first observed by Sputnik 2 and Sputnik 3 -RRB- and extends for several thousand miles into space.
Pioneer helped to innovate interactive cable TV, the Laser Disc player, the first automotive Compact Disc player, the first detachable face car stereo, their Supertuner technology, DVD and DVD recording, plasma display, and Organic LED display -LRB- OLED -RRB-.
The company 's works with optical disc and display technology and software products and is also a manufacturer.
It is widely used in Scouting and Girl Guiding.
Many Scout and Guide groups train their members in pioneering skills and construct projects, both small and large.
In camp, Scouts may construct functional items like tables, camp dressers and gadgets, as well as decorative camp gateways.
The use of photography became more common in Manila and the rest of the Philippines from the year 1860 onwards.
Recognized as a resident photographer in the Philippines since 1865 through the 1870s, Honnis was a popular producer of commercial `` visiting cards '' and `` aesthetic '' picture portraits.
Metallic pipes are commonly made from steel or iron ; the metal chemistry and its finish are peculiar to the use fit and form.
Typically metallic piping may be made of steel or iron, such as unfinished, black -LRB- lacquer -RRB- steel, carbon steel, stainless steel or galvanized steel, brass, and ductile iron.
Aluminum pipe or tubing may be utilized where iron is incompatible with the service fluid or where weight is a concern ; aluminum is also used for heat transfer tubing such as in refrigerant systems.
Copper tubing is popular for domestic water -LRB- potable -RRB- plumbing systems ; copper may be used where heat transfer is desirable -LRB- i.e. radiators or heat exchangers -RRB-.
Keyboards played by the hands are known as ` manuals' -LRB- from the Latin', meaning `` hand '' -RRB-.
Every organ has at least one manual -LRB- most have two or more -RRB-, and most have a pedalboard.
Each keyboard is named for a particular division of the organ -LRB- a group of ranks -RRB- and generally controls only the stops from that division.
The range of the keyboards has varied widely across time and between countries.
Older sewer lines of small diameter -LRB- typically - 150mm -RRB- are made by the union of a number of short -LRB- 10 ft - 3 m -RRB- sections.
The pipe segments may be made of cast iron but are more often made of vitrified clay pipe -LRB- VCP -RRB-, a ceramic material made from vitrified clay.
Roots from trees and vegetation may work into the joins between segments and can be forceful enough to break open a larger opening in terra cotta or corroded cast iron.
Eventually a root ball will form that will impede the flow and this may cleaned out by a cutter mechanism and subsequently inhibited by use of a chemical foam - a ` rooticide'.
Ideophones are a distinct set of lexical items, often denoting some process that is directly perceived by the senses -LRB- such as a kind of sound or visual experience -RRB-, which enter into a special range of language-specific grammatical patterns.
The root form of a typical Nawat ideophone is a CVCV sequence, e.g.' - chala -, - china -, - kelu -, - kina -, - kumu -, - kwala -, - tapa -, - tikwi -, - tzaya -, - tzili -, - tzutzu -'. These roots are not words and only acquire full meaning when they enter into one or another of the derivational patterns for Nawat ideophones.
When the chicks hatch many areas will put up snow fencing to restrict driving and pets for the safety of the chicks.
The threats to nests include predators such as crows, cats, racoons, fox and various other animals to less extents.
Ghost Crabs have been noted as being a possible predator of young chicks.
As a precaution it is best to stay away from any bird that appears distressed to prevent any unintended consequences.
All alone on a stage, Pippin is surrounded by the Leading Player and the various troupe members.
They all suggest that Pippin complete the most perfect act ever : the Finale.
Pippin is reluctant, but agrees that perhaps suicide is the best way to go -LRB- `` Finale '' -RRB-, but he is stopped by his natural misgivings and also by one actress from the troupe-the woman playing Catherine.
Pippin realizes that he has given up his extraordinary purpose for the simplest and most ordinary life of all, and he is finally a happy man.
The Mughals and their armies too used this route many times.
The building is known as `` Bawlai '' and in danger to be vanished because there is no care by the Federal, Provincial and Local Governments but also for the local community.
It is known fact that men from the village were often recruited by the passing armies.
One famous soldier recruited was known in those times as Bahadur Baba, he was an older man but fought fiercely and with great skill.
Pir Roshan is a major figure in Pushtu history and literature.
He led an armed struggle against the Mughals, after continuous military agitations against him and his people from Akbar.
Seeing the spiritual and religious hold of Pir Roshan over a large portion of Pashtuns, Akbar brought in a number of religious figures against the struggle, most notably Akhund Darweza.
This nicety of law did not always save the individuals concerned, however, as whether one was considered a pirate or a legally operating privateer often depended on whose custody the individual found himself in-that of the country that had issued the commission, or that of the object of attack.
Spanish authorities were known to execute foreign privateers with their letters of marque hung around their necks to emphasize Spain 's rejection of such defenses.
However, a letter of marque did provide some cover for such pirates, as plunder seized from neutral or friendly shipping could be passed off later as taken from enemy merchants.
After 1720, piracy in the classic sense became extremely rare in the Caribbean as European military and naval forces, especially those of the Royal Navy, just became too widespread and active for any pirate to pursue an effective career for long.
Pirates who were caught were usually hanged as soon as the British returned to port.
At the same time, one of the terms of the Treaty of Utrecht that ended the war gave to Great Britain 's Royal African Company and other British slavers a thirty-year asiento, or contract, to furnish African slaves to the Spanish colonies, providing British merchants and smugglers potential inroads into the traditionally closed Spanish markets in America and leading to an economic revival for the whole region.
. -RSB- -RSB- Piraeus, nevertheless, is still a major centre for Greek and international shipping, and bi-annually it acts as the focus for a major shipping convention, known as Posidonia, which attracts maritime industry professionals from all over the world.
Nowadays, Piraeus is one of the largest ports in Europe, and the annual number of 19 million passengers makes it the third largest worldwide, in terms of passenger transportation.
Piraeus is also 47th worldwide in cargo traffic and at the top of all eastern Mediterranean ports.
The central port serves ferry routes to almost every island in the eastern portion of Greece, the island of Crete, the Cyclades, the Dodecanese, and much of the northern and the eastern Aegean Sea, while the western part of the port is used for cargo services.
However, if there had been pronouns at an earlier stage of Piraha, this would not affect Everett 's claim of the significance of the system 's simplicity today.
These so called pan-green radio stations are mostly based in central and southern Taiwan with most listeners being hard-core pan-green supporters who despise Kuomingtang rule and the potential for reunification with China.
With the DPP currently in power, and ultimate Taiwan independence and sovereignty being the stance taken by most underground radio stations, it makes Taiwan one of the rare examples in the world of underground radio stations being pro-government.
The regulation states that a war is considered a `` time of emergency. ''.
Publications featured in : XXL Magazine, URB, Murder Dog, BAM, and other local industry related publications.
Lewis FM, broadcast a mix of predominately American and British Top 40, as well as Christian Rock to a section of Lewis, New York, which has a total population of approximately 1,200 people.
A good deal of ` Pirates' flavor text contains references to historical events or people, other fictional characters or events, or are simply references to the game 's writers and designers.
` Pirates' fiction also contains homages to other pirate fiction.
Some ship names are references to other games created by Jordan Weisman.
Apparently rushed into production to meet the -LRB- unrelated but thematically similar -RRB- movie Pirates of the Caribbean : Dead Man 's Chest that released later on July 7, 2006, this set had an unusual number of ` quality issues' in the first run, mainly damaged cards from the factory - severe scratches, dings and corner clipping are common in the first run of this set.
Dirt, pebbles, hair and assorted debris were also commonly found inside the wrappers.
Drew McWeeny was an exception, praising its complexity as giving it repeat-viewing value, and its conclusion as `` perhaps the most canny move it makes. ''.
Todd Gilchrist found the story too similar to other cinematic trilogies such as ` Star Wars' but praised the production values.
Brian Lowry felt that `` unlike last year 's bloated sequel, it at least possesses some semblance of a destination, making it slightly more coherent - if no less numbing during the protracted finale. ''.
James Berardinelli found it the weakest of the trilogy as `` the last hour offers adventure as rousing as anything provided in either of the previous installments ... which does n't account for the other 108 minutes of this gorged, self-indulgent, and uneven production. ''.
` Piritramide' -LRB- trade names ` Dipidolor', ` Piridolan', ` Pirium' and others -RRB- is a synthetic opioid analgesic with a potency 0.65 to 0.75 times that of morphine.
A common starting dose is 15 mg IV, equivalent to 10 mg of morphine hydrochloride.
Piritramide is commonly used for the treatment of postoperative pain.
This stuffed bun is also popular in Armenia, where it is called ` piroshki'.
In Armenia ` piroshki' are commonly made with meat or potato fillings.
The Greek variety ` piroski' is popular in parts of Greece influenced by eastern cuisine and in most big cities, where they are sold as a type of fast food.
The Greek ` piroski' come baked or deep-fried with many different stuffings.
Herodotus, who does not mention the Pisidians, enumerates the Pamphylians among the nations of Asia Minor, while Ephorus mentions them both, correctly including the one among the nations on the interior, the other among those of the coast.
Pamphylia early received colonies from Greece and other lands, and from this cause, combined with the greater fertility of their territory, became more civilized than its neighbor in the interior.
shield pistol from the early 16th century -RSB- -RSB- blade similar to the modern flick knife -RSB- -RSB- \ nEdged weapons with built-in pistols were common in Eastern Europe.
Retrieved on 23 December 2008. \ nKnife pistols with folding blades were popular in England during the mid Victorian era.
These were made by Unwin and Rodgers, used black powder and were available in various small calibers.Frost, Gordon -LRB- 1972 -RRB-. ''.
Like the modern Swiss Army knife they contained a variety of tools, from blades to corkscrews, and were often used by sailors.
If looking for the maximum possible displacement, a twin rotor Wankel rotary displacing 654cc per combustion chamber -LRB- such as the Mazda 13B -RRB- has a maximum displacement of 3924cc -LRB- 3.9 liters -RRB-.
This is because there are three possible combustion chambers per rotor, each displacing 654cc at full expansion. 654cc per face, three faces per rotor -LRB- 1962cc/2 liters -RRB-, two rotors per engine -LRB- 3924cc/3 .9 liters -RRB-.
Taking combustion chamber volume and multiplying by the total number of possible combustion chambers per engine.
This means comparing a hypothetical 3.9 liter piston engine to a' 1.3 liter' Wankel rotary -LRB- with a maximum possible displacement of 3.9 liters -RRB- using this method will result in the the piston engine 's theoretical specific output being approximately 50 % higher than the Wankel rotary because the piston engine will displace its 3.9 liters through a power stroke one revolution -LRB- 50 % -RRB- sooner than the Wankel rotary.
Most of the monkeys placed inside it were at least three months old and had already bonded with others.
After a few days, they gave up.
Blum 1994, p. 218. Stephen J. Suomi, another of Harlow 's doctoral students, placed some monkeys in the chamber in 1970 for his PhD. He wrote that he could find no monkey who had any defense against it.
The ethnographic sample is based almost entirely on case studies from societies located in northern latitudes.
Since less heat is lost by transmission than above ground structures, less energy is required to maintain stable temperatures inside the structure.Farwell -LRB- 1981 -RRB- Out of the 82 ethnographic cases in the Ethnographic Atlas 50 societies had population estimates and of these 64 % had fewer than 100 people per settlement.Gillman -LRB- 1987:544 -RRB- In only 6 % cases were there more than 400 persons per settlement.
Israeli Jews of Arabic descent exported the pita to Western countries, together with Falafel and other types of Arabic food since the 1950s.
Another possible etymology is from a Romanian archaic word for bread, ` pită'.
She is generally weak - more so when her staff breaks under Misha 's angelic influence.
Once the people remembered Shia, Shia came back to life.
When Shima becomes too weak and almost takes Kotaroh 's life force, she goes with Klaus -LRB- Nya -RRB- who erases her memory of Taro and her children.
Pitcairn 's 47 inhabitants, almost all of whom are interrelated, were bitterly divided by the charging of most of the adult male population.
Under what sources close to the case said was pressure from their families, several women withdrew the charges they had laid.
They and other women present at the meeting, who endorsed their view that underage sex was normal on Pitcairn, stated emphatically that all of the alleged rape victims had been willing participants.
Charlene Warren, who withdrew charges against a Pitcairn man, claimed that detectives had offered her money to testify ; when pressed, she clarified that the money referred to statutory compensation for victims of crime.
New York State Route 3 and New York State Route 812 intersect near the south town line.
Well-thrown breaking balls have movement, usually sideways or downward.
The goal is usually to make the ball difficult to hit or confusing to batters.
The most common breaking pitches are : \ n Curveball \ n Knuckle curve \ n \ n Slurve \ n Slider \ n Screwball \ n 12-6 curve.
Basic pitch may be played by 2-7 players with a standard 52-card deck.
Each player receives six cards, traditionally dealt three at a time.
Beginning with the player to the dealer 's left and proceeding clockwise, players may bid 2-4 points for the privilege of declaring the trump suit for the hand.
The player who wins the bid -LRB- often called the ` pitcher, bidder,' or ` maker' -RRB- must make as many points as he or she bid, or is `` set back. ''.
DifferenceToneFirstly, while the primary indication of accent is pitch -LRB- tone -RRB-, there is only one or a few tonic syllable or mora in a word, or at least in simple words, the position of which determines the tonal pattern of the whole word.The term is often defined as tone on only one syllable or mora.
Pitch accent may also be restricted in distribution, being found for example only on one of the last two syllables.
This is unlike the situation in typical tone languages, where the tone of each syllable is independent of the other syllables in the word.
For example, comparing two-syllable words like -LSB- aba -RSB- in a pitch-accented language and in a tonal language, both of which make only a binary distinction, the tonal language has four possible patterns :.
Kakara Pitha' : It is a fried pitha made from wheat flour/semolina in shape of small pancake.It may have a sweet cocunut filling.It is a very popular snack, available with roadside vendors all over Orissa.'.
Enduri Pitha' : It is a steamed variety of rice and black gram pitha.It may have a jaggery and coconut/chenna filling.The speciality of this pitha is it 's aroma which comes from the tumeric leaf, covered in which the pitha is steamed.Enduri pitha is a special delicacy of the oriya festival Prathamastami.'.
Chakuli Pitha' : It is a thin pancake made from fermented rice and black gram batter.Thicker pithas are called ` chakuli'. The thinner variety -LRB- similar to plain dosa -RRB- is called ` saru chakuli'. Tastes great if served with oriya delicacy ` dalama' or coconut chutney or ` kheeri', a rice seet dish.It is very common in traditional oriya homes to eat ` chakuli' pitha for breakfast.'.
The skin and feathers of some pitohuis, especially the Variable and Hooded Pitohuis, contain powerful neurotoxic alkaloids of the batrachotoxin group -LRB- also secreted by the Colombian poison dart frogs, genus ` Phyllobates' -RRB-.
A ` pitot-static system' is a system of pressure-sensitive instruments that is most often used in aviation to determine an aircraft 's airspeed, Mach number, altitude, and altitude trend.
Errors in pitot-static system readings can be extremely dangerous as the information obtained from the pitot static system, such as altitude, is often critical to a successful flight.
The tablets are votive offerings, connected with the rural cult of the nymphs, which was widespread throughout Greece.
This, as well as references to wooden painted or inscribed votives at other Greek sanctuaries -LRB- e.g. Epidaurus -RRB-, indicates that the Pitsa tablets belong to the types of votives available to the lower, or poorer, sections of population.
There are a number of pillars running along this stand, supporting the roof.
As a consequence, views in some places are restricted.
It remains, however, the most expensive stand from which to watch matches.
` Pittosporum' -LRB- or, The first pronunciation is that expected for Anglo-Latin ; the second is common in nurseries.
The Pittsburgh English dialect, popularly referred to as `` Pittsburghese '', derives from influences from the Scottish-Irish, Welsh, German, Central European and Eastern European immigrants.
The lexicon itself contains notable cognates borrowing from Croatian and other Slavic and European languages.
The PGC was in the news when it was considered to be closed under the Superintendent Mark Roosevelt 's school reform agenda.
However, the proposal faced stiff opposition from parents and students -LRB- some students organized a petition to save the Gifted Center ; another -RRB-.
The new terminal was equipped with numerous innovative, state-of-the-art features at the time, including an `` AirMall '' that featured shops for passengers to browse in, and `` landside-airside '' terminal construction which eliminated the need for connecting passengers to go through security again.
The 1917 team, nicknamed `` The Fighting Dentists '' because over half the roster became doctors or dentists, finished 10-0 with five shutouts despite losing several players to military service at the outbreak of World War I. The Spanish flu pandemic of 1918, which took the life of former Pitt star Tex Richards, `` Robert W. Richards Pneumonia Victim '', Eagle, November 8, 1918. saw the implementation of quarantines that eliminated much of that year 's college football season, including five of Pitt 's originally schedule contests.
Pitt swept through its first three games and then dismantled Georgia Tech 32-0 in front of many of the nation 's top sports writers including Walter Camp.
The company also announced major changes to the remaining Gateway publications including a revamp of the Pennysaver in the communities that have Gateway newspapers.
On May 11 1870 McCreery and ten other people filed Articles of Association with Pennsylvania Secretary of State.
The new group was James I Bennett, David Hostetter, James M. Baily, Mark W. Watson, and James M. Schoonmaker, all influential.In the spring of 1877, the first rails were laid down in Beaver Falls, which had the largest population other than Pittsburgh.
The other reason for this was around February 1877 Jacob Henrici of the Harmony Society had business there.
They create the burrow systems in which the pine snakes are most frequently found, and serve as a major source of food for the species.
Up to 90 % of radio-tagged snake relocations have been underground in pocket gopher burrow systems, and movement patterns are typically from one pocket gopher burrow system to another.
Both native and captive-released snakes were found most frequently in areas containing an ample number of pocket gopher mounds, and snakes stayed active longer and moved greater distances where pocket gopher burrows were abundant.
- ` Policing' : access to quality policing for marginalized groups as well as police accountability for any forms of misconduct through lawsuits, complaints.
In 2002, Pivot published ` To Serve and Protect : A Report on Policing in Vancouver 's Downtown Eastside', which documented various affidavits from residents regarding police behaviour.
- ` Child welfare' : Children from low-income families in the Downtown Eastside have a greater chance of being admitted to the child protection system than those from other regions of British Columbia.
- ` Health' : Promoting prevention, treatment, support and harm reduction programs as the most effective solutions to drug addiction problems.
XPivot 3.5 fixes a few more bugs found in PivotX 4.1 RTM.
The creator of XPivot, Pyrotic, is against all forms of IP Tracking and stated, `` In all versions of XPivot to come IP Tracking will NEVER BE USED, but other anti-piracy measures will be utilized in the alpha, beta and RC versions that do not take personal privacy to such an extent ''.
BBR 2778 was synthesized and initially characterized in vitro for tumor cell cytotoxicity and mechanism of action by studies at the Boehringer Mannheim Italia Research Center, Monza, and University of Vermont, Burlington.
Other studies have been completed at the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, the Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Milan, and the University of Padua.
In the search for novel heteroanalogs of anthracenediones, it was selected as the most promising compound.
Toxicological studies indicated that BBR 2778 was not cardiotoxic, and US patents are held by the University of Vermont.
` Hot Pursuit', in which the player has to crash into a specific car as much as possible.
` Hot Rods', in which the player has to race against four opponents while avoiding other cars.
` The Munchies', in which crashing into other cars fuels the player 's vehicle in order for it to keep racing.
Ryouta Minigawa : Ryouta is Amamiya 's best friend.
He obviously has a huge crush on Mayu 's best friend, Nazuna.
In volume 2 they were voted as best couple even though they were n't a couple.
Ryouta confessed his love for Nazuna when they had a wedding for winning best couple.
The crust is similar to that of an English muffin, and the pizza is often cooked in an electric oven.
It is usually cut with scissors or a knife and sold by weight. -LRB- 2 -RRB- In pizza restaurants -LRB- pizzerias -RRB-, pizza is served in a dish in its traditional round shape.
It is usually cooked in a wood-fired oven, giving the pizza its unique flavor and texture.
An Oldsmobile Alero being used to deliver a pizza.
Note the sign on the car 's roof.
`` Pizza Pizza 's Guarantee. ''.
For example, Domino 's Pizza had a commercial campaign in the 1980s and early 1990s promising, `` 30 minutes or it 's free. ''.
This practice was discontinued in 1993 due to a number of lawsuits arising from accidents caused by hurried delivery drivers.
`` Jury award spurs Domino 's to drop deadily policy. ''.
Many other cultures have developed a pizzelle-type cookie as part of their culture -LRB- for example, the Norwegian Krumkake -RRB-.
Pizzelle are known as ` ferratelle' in the Lazio region of Italy.
In Molise they may be called ferratelle, ` cancelle', or pizzelle.
Different states use a variety of terms for their incorporated places.
The designations `` city, '' `` town, '' `` village, '' and `` borough '' are most frequent, but one or more places in Kentucky, Montana, Nevada, and Tennessee have place-type governments -LRB- usually consolidated ones -RRB- that do not have any of these designations.
Only two other states -LRB- Connecticut and Pennsylvania -RRB- include `` boroughs '' as incorporated places.
Eleven states have only `` cities, '' and the remainder of the States have various combinations of `` cities '', `` towns '', and `` villages ''.
In the case of application-specific integrated circuits, or ASICs, the chip 's core layout area comprises anumber of fixed height rows, with either some or no space between them.
On the other hand, blocks are typically larger than cells and have variable heights that can stretch amultiple number of rows.
Alternatively, some orall of the blocks may not have preassigned locations.
In this case, they have to be placed with the cells inwhat is commonly referred to as mixed-mode placement.
Women with placenta previa often present with painless, bright red vaginal bleeding.
This bleeding often starts mildly and may increase as the area of placental separation increases.
Abdominal examination usually finds the uterus non-tender and relaxed.
Leopold 's Maneuvers may find the fetus in an oblique or breech position or lying transverse as a result of the abnormal position of the placenta.
Those who advocate placentophagy in humans, mostly in modern America and Europe, Mexico, Hawaii, China, and the Pacific Islands, believe that eating the placenta prevents postpartum depression and other pregnancy complications.
Consumption of uncooked human placenta carries risks associated with other human blood products, primarily risk of hepatitis B, C and HIV infection.
Although not required, the process water may be continuously recycled and the ore from which the sought after minerals have been extracted -LRB- `` the tailings '' -RRB- can be reclaimed.
While these recycling and reclamation processes are more common in modern placer mining operations they are still not universally done.
By the fall of 1899, development was described as `` of the most superficial character, '' although Frenzel had driven one tunnel 18 feet into the rock.F.
L. Ransome, ` Occurrence of the uranium and vanadium ores', American Journal of Science, Aug 1900, v. 10, n. 56, p.121-127. By 1901-1902, Frenzel was excavating several thousand tons intended for shipment to Europe.Harry E. Lee -LRB- 1903 -RRB- ` Report of the Colorado State Bureau of Mines for the Years 1901-1902', p. 201. Most of the Placerville ore was less than 3 % vanadium, too low grade to pay for shipment to Europe, so in 1905 the Vanadium Alloys Co. built an ore-processing mill southeast of Placerville to recover the metal as ferro-vanadium, which it sold.Frank L. Hess -LRB- 1913 -RRB- ` Notes on the vanadium deposits near Placerville, Colorado', in ` Contributions to Economic Geology, 1911', US Geological Survey, Bulletin 530, p.142-156.
Fischer and others -LRB- 1947 -RRB- ` Vanadium deposits near Placerville, San Miguel County, Colorado', Colorado Scientific Society Proceedings, v. 15 n. 3, p. 120.
Bush and others -LRB- 1959 -RRB- ` Areal geology of the Placerville Quadrangle, San Miguel County, Colorado', US Geological Survey, Bulletin 1072-E, p. 373.
Goblins are extremely greedy and will protect their money and valuables at any cost, which makes them ideal guardians for the valuables of the wizarding world.
In addition, according to Hagrid, apart from Hogwarts, Gringotts is considered `` the safest place in the world for anything you want to keep safe ''. Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone.
J. K. Rowling. pg. 73. ISBN 1-55192-700-4 There are a number of methods to opening the vaults. Most vaults, such as Harry 's, use small golden keys.
Higher security vaults may have various enchantments upon the doors.
Varanavata was one of the provinces asked by Pandavas, if Duryodhana is unwilling to give half the kingdom : - Give us even Kusasthala, Vrikasthala, Makandi, Varanavata, and for the fifth any other that Duryodhana liked -LRB- 5,31 -RRB-.
Words of Yudhisthira : - I prayed for only five villages, viz, Avishthala, Vrikasthala, Makandi, Varanavata, with any other as the fifth ; -- Grant us, we said, five villages or towns where we five may dwell in union -LRB- 5,72 -RRB- -LRB- 5,82 -RRB-.
Yuyutsu, is mentioned as battling in Varanavata with many kings together, for six months unvanquished.
He in another battle at Varanasi overthrew with a broad-headed arrow the prince of Kasi, desirous of seizing at a Swayamvara -LRB- self-chice ceremony -RRB- a maiden for wife -LRB- 7,10 -RRB-.
An Earthlike planet on which Arthur Dent lived for a short time.
Inhabited by Bartledanians who neither breathe nor wish for things.
This is painted in bright colours, often yellows, oranges and purples.
On the morning of September 17, around 1000 people gathered at the Spasskiye gates again, demanding the release of captured rebels and elimination of quarantines.
Some 300 people were brought to trial.
Around 200,000 people died in Moscow and its outskirts during the plague.
Those who tended to the ill were most vulnerable to catching the disease.
Especially poignant are descriptions of how people were not cared for due to the overwhelming numbers of sick and dying.
People were simply left to die in buildings or on the streets, and the dead were heaped on top of each other, left to rot or shoved into mass graves.
The major challenge to the view of planter dominance came from historian Frank Lawrence Owsley in ` Plain Folk of the Old South' -LRB- 1949 -RRB-.
Owsley started with the work of Daniel R. Hundley, who in 1860 had defined the southern middle class as `` farmers, planters, traders, storekeepers, artisans, mechanics, a few manufacturers, a goodly number of country school teachers, and a host of half-fledged country lawyers, doctors, parsons, and the like. ''.
To find these people, Owsley turned to the name-by-name files on the manuscript federal census.
They gathered data on all southerners. historian Vernon Burton described Owsley 's ` Plain Folk of the Old South', as `` one of the most influential works on southern history ever written. ''.
A count of the vocabulary of `` best sellers '' and a summary of it in terms of our list would thus be very instructive.The 1930s saw an explosion of studies on how to make texts more readable for the average reader.
In 1934, Ralph Ojemann, Edgar Dale, and Ralph Waples published two studies on writing for adults with limited reading ability.
They generally live directly underneath Spanish bayonet or prickly pear plants.
Some food found in their cheek pouches are : seeds of needle grass -LRB- Stipa -RRB-, bind weed, sandbur grass, a small bean -LRB- probably Astragulus -RRB-, and sedge -LRB- Cyperus -RRB-.
Even those caught in grain fields usually have their pouches filled with weed seeds.
Seeds of two species of pigeon grass, a few other grasses, and wild buckwheat have been found in their holes.
Plaintext has reference to the operation of cryptographic algorithms, usually encryption algorithms, and is the input upon which they operate.
Since computers became commonly available, the definition has also encompassed not only electronic representations of the traditional text, for instance, messages -LRB- eg, email -RRB- and document content -LRB- eg, word processor files -RRB-, but also the computer representations of sound -LRB- eg, speech, or music -RRB-, images -LRB- eg, photos or videos -RRB-, ATM and credit card transaction information, sensor data, and so forth.
Basically, any information which the communicating parties wish to conceal from others can now be treated, and referred to, as plaintext.
It may not represent text, and even if it does, the text may be not `` plain ''.
On August 30, 2006, the New York Times reports that the lawyer and other associates of Mr. Armitage confirmed he was Novak 's `` initial and primary source '' for Plame 's identity.
` The New York Times' also reports `` Mr. Armitage cooperated voluntarily in the case, never hired a lawyer and testified several times to the grand jury, according to people who are familiar with his role and actions in the case.
But Mr. Armitage kept his actions secret, not even telling President Bush because the prosecutor asked him not to divulge it, the people said ....
But he stayed on the job because State Department officials advised that his sudden departure could lead to the disclosure of his role in the leak, the people aware of his actions said ....
` Plan Canada' operates as the Canadian arm of Plan International, a not-for-profit global movement that promotes social justice for youth and their families in more than 65 developing countries and several continents.
Plan Canada attempts to break the cycle of poverty by helping children and adults living in developing countries use their ideas, talents and energies to shape their future.Before choosing a work site, Plan Canada analyzes the community 's poverty statistics ; infant mortality rates -LRB- countries with more than 25 deaths per 1,000 live births are given priority -RRB- ; Gross National Product -LRB- GNP -RRB- -LRB- GNP per capital should be less than $ 1,700 USD -RRB- ; and other factors that are key elements of determining Plan Canada 's long-term regional success.
With help from trained volunteers and donations from benefactors, Plan Canada assists community participants in a number of areas, including : building schools, educating teachers, digging wells, opening health clinics, providing vocational training, using technology to improve crop yields, giving people access to small business loans, and providing disaster-related humanitarian assistance.
Worldwide, approximately nine million individuals have become involved in Plan and Plan Canada 's child-centered initiatives.
The central Guatemalan department of Baja Verapaz comprises eight municipalities, one of which is Rabinal, some 70 km to the north of Guatemala City.
In 1982, the municipality was made up of the municipal seat of Rabinal town, along with another 14 villages and 60 hamlets.
Among the villages was Plan de Sánchez, located in a hilly woodland area some 9 km from the town of Rabinal.
Achi is one of the 21 varieties of the Maya language recognised in Guatemala ; according to a 2002 government census, it was spoken by some 105,000 people in the Baja Verapaz highlands.Academia de Lenguas Mayas de Guatemala, Via the Internet Archive.
It is widespread in wooded habitats of eastern Brazil, extreme north-eastern Bolivia, eastern Paraguay, and far north-eastern Argentina.
It is generally common -LRB- typically the commonest ` Phyllomyias' in its range -RRB-, and consequently rated as Least Concern by BirdLife International and IUCN.
There are three relatively distinctive subspecies, differing in measurements, plumage and voice, and it is possible they are better regarded as separate species.
Auk 125 -LRB- 2 -RRB- : 265-276. It can be separated from other members of its genus found in its range by the combination of a greyish-tinged forecrown and an all-black bill.
It may, in fact, be a fundamental aspect of the universe.
In terms of size, the Planck scale is unimaginably small -LRB- many orders of magnitude smaller than a proton -RRB-.
This makes the Planck scale a fascinating realm for speculation by theoretical physicists from various schools of thought.
Most cosmologists today believe that the universe exploded into being some 13.7 billion years ago in a ` smeared-out singularity' called the big bang, meaning that space itself came into being at the moment of the big bang and has expanded ever since, creating and carrying the galaxies with it.
However, in esoteric cosmology expansion refers to the emanation or unfolding of steadily denser planes or spheres from the spiritual summit, what Greek mythology described as `` Chaos '', until the lowest and most material world is reached.
According to Rosicrucians, another difference is that there is no such thing as empty or void space.
On the other hand, Chaos is not a state which has existed in the past and has now entirely disappeared.
` Planescape : Torment' is primarily story-driven ; combat is given less prominence than in most contemporary role-playing games.
The protagonist is an immortal who has lost his name, lived many lives, and forgotten them.
The game focuses on The Nameless One 's journey throughout the city of Sigil and other planes to reclaim his memories of these previous lives.
The time at which each hemisphere points farthest or nearest from its star is known as its solstice.
Each planet has two in the course of its orbit ; when one hemisphere has its summer solstice, when its day is longest, the other has its winter solstice, when its day is shortest.
` Flint Baker' -- One of the longest-running strips, Flint Baker was another athletic space hero, who became part of the Space Rangers.
Flint Baker was the `` main hero '' and `` cover feature '' of most of the first 13 issues, and after twenty-five issues he `` team -LSB- ed -RSB- up with Reef Ryan to form the Space Rangers '' when ` Planet Comics' dropped its page count.
Appearances between issues # 2 and # 60 -LRB- initially as `` Flint Baker, '' later as `` Space Rangers '' -RRB- were illustrated by a full range of artists, including Nick Viscardi, Joe Doolin and Artie Saff ; Arthur Peddy, Lee Elias, Frank Doyle, Joe Cavallo, etc.. The Space Rangers `` were drawn by Lee Elias, Bob Lubbers, '' and others.
The first incarnation was the son of Professor Hardwich, and appeared in most issues between # 1-29 and was essentially an outer space version of Tarzan, where Auro was `` befriended by a saber tooth tiger, '' stranded on Jupiter with `` muscles ... as strong as steel '' thanks to the higher gravitational pull of the planet.
The best artwork on the first series of Auro stories was, wrote Miller `` by Raphael Astarita, '' whose name Jerry Bails and Hames Ware spell ` Rafael'..
Accessed May 16, 2009 Auro was illustrated by a number of different artists, among them Doolin, Ingels and Rafael Astarita.
In issue # 36, the duo were joined by `` 3 more Earth people, '' named Bruce, Robin and Bonnie.
` Gale Allen' -- A voluptuous female space adventurer, who led her all girl `` girl squadron '' on wild outings, Gale appeared in almost every issue between # 4 and # 42.
The first six issues were drawn by Astarita in the style of Mac Raboy, while Joseph Cavallo is thought to have inked/drawn many of the later issues.
Among several artists, George Appel produced a dozen early issues, while the bulk of issues # 33-51 were drawn by Murphy Anderson, whose additions transformed the Pirate into `` an almost completely new strip. ''.
` Mars, God of War' -- Named by Miller as `` one of the most famous '' strips, the adventures of the ancient Roman God, causing violent mischief on other planets appeared between issues # 15 and # 35.
Appearing in issues # 36-52 and # 55-62, after Doolin the strip was most notably illustrated by Fran Hooper -LRB- # 37-42 ; # 48-49 -RRB-. \ n'Norge Benson' - Between issues # 12-32, comedy relief was provided by Norge Benson, written by ` Olaf Benson,' whom Miller identifies as Kip Beales.
Due to Siberian winds, Mongolia 's Gobi Desert reaches extremes of temperature like no other, ranging from -40 ° C to +50 ° C -LRB- -40 ° F to 122 ° F -RRB-.
The biggest dunes -LRB- 300 m or 1,000 ft high -RRB- are to be found in Namibia, while other deserts featured are Death Valley in California and Nevada, the Sonoran in Arizona, the deserts of Utah, all in the United States, the Atacama in Chile, and areas of the Australian outback.
For many years she lives with a Japanese foster family until Idou, a monk loyal to Kura, and Seeu, an emotionless prince, appear in her home one night.
While they fight each other, Gold - Seeu 's robot modelled after Kaguya 's deceased brother Kagami - brings Kaguya to Telene, a world parallel to Earth, on Seeu 's orders.
Shiina explains that nine worlds exist : Ancient, the first civilized world that was mysteriously destroyed ; Asu, Seeu 's disintegrated world ; Eden, present day Earth ; Telene, a small world allied with Geo ; Fifth World, a politically neutral world ; Geus, a peaceful world under the control of Geo ; Geo, the most powerful of the worlds ; Asuraitsu, Geo 's rival ; and the Ninth World, destroyed before the start of the series.
To move from one world to another, hourglasslike devices called `` Collapsers '' are used to create a bend in the dimensional fabric.
Despite offering a good viewer experience, traditional star ball projectors suffer several inherent limitations.
From a practical point of view, the low light levels require several minutes for the audience to `` dark adapt '' its eyesight.
Finally, a challenge for most traditional projectors is that the various overlaid projection systems are incapable of proper occultation.
Along with the characteristics of planets and their star systems, the wider galactic environment may also impact habitability.
Globular clusters are also primarily composed of older, likely metal-poor, stars. \ n It is not near an active gamma ray source. \ n It is not near the galactic center where once again star densities increase the likelihood of ionizing radiation -LRB- e.g., from magnetars and supernovae -RRB-.
The Committee on Space Research categorizes the missions into 5 groups : \ nCategory I : Any mission to the Sun, Mercury, other locations not of interest for studying prebiotic chemistry or the origin and evolution of life.
Category II : Any mission to the Earth 's Moon, Venus, comets, Jupiter, Pluto/Charon, Kuiper Belt Objects, other locations of interest for studying prebiotic chemistry and the origin of life but for which there is an insignificant probability of contamination with Earth life.
Missions returning samples from locations with the potential to support life are considered ` Restricted Earth Return' and returned samples must be contained at levels more stringent than Biosafety level 4.
Samples from locations judged unlikely to support life are considered ` Unrestricted Earth Return' and merit no constraints for planetary protection purposes.
Some planetary systems may form differently, however.
Pulsars are formed in violent supernova explosions, and a normal planetary system could not possibly survive such a blast-planets would either evaporate, be pushed off of their orbits by the masses of gas from the exploding star, or the sudden loss of most of the mass of the central star would see them escape the gravitational hold of the star.
One theory is that existing stellar companions were almost entirely evaporated by the supernova blast, leaving behind planet-sized bodies.
Alternatively, planets may somehow form in the accretion disk surrounding pulsars., Philipp Podsiadlowski, pp. 149-165, in ` Planets around pulsars ; Proceedings of the Conference, California Inst. of Technology, Pasadena, Apr. 30-May 1, 1992', edited by J. A. Phillips, J. E. Thorsest, and S. R. Kulkarni, ASP Conference Series,' 36', 1993.
The latter is a community website for the people residing in the Greater Toronto Area.
In the early 1800s, Ceres, Juno and the other two asteroids mentioned above, were scientifically recognized as planets.
Although asteroids have been known to both astronomers and astrologers for more than 200 years, they are often ignored by astrologers.
The tradition of some astrologers casting minor planets originates with these asteroids.
Taken as a whole, a centrally planned economy would attempt to substitute a number of firms with a single firm for an entire economy.
After all, most corporations are essentially ` centrally planned economies', aside from some token intra-corporate pricing.
Anarchist theorists like Kevin Carson however point to the numerous ways in which government intervention in the market magnify economies of scale, offsetting the natural inefficiencies of centrally planned economies by means of privileges and historical subsidies granted by force, and argues that in a truly free market corporations would n't exist.
Many portable consumer electronics contain proprietary, often lithium-based batteries.
Production of these batteries is usually stopped at around the same time the product is discontinued, therefore rendering the product worthless once the batteries start to wear out.
While battery packs can be rebuilt and fitted with new cells, this is either too costly or too time consuming for most consumers.
As one stood in the hall facing the Rubens chimney-piece, to the left through a glazed arch and door, one looked into an anteroom and hence the obviously named South Entrance through a single pane of plate glass -LRB- the largest ever produced at the time -RRB- to the stunning panorama of the Chilterns.
To the right and through another glazed arch was the Grand Staircase, a single flight of wide white marble steps divided at the mezzanine level into two further flights to the arcaded gallery above.
Here on the stairs were two of the most famous paintings, Gainsborough 's only known sporting picture ; and the jewel of the collection, the Drouais of Madame de Pompadour, now in the National Gallery.
For this picture alone the British government paid almost as much as it could have paid for the remainder of the collection.
Plant collecting may also refer to a hobby, in which the hobbyist takes identifiable samples of plant species found in nature, dries them, and stores them in a paper sheet album, a simple herbarium, alongside with the information of the finding location, finding date, etc. necessary scientific information.
For example, monocots possess structures like lodicules and palea, that were believed to be analogous to the dicot petals and carpels respectively.It turns out that this is true, and the variation is due to slight changes in the MADS-box genes and their expression pattern in the monocots.
Arabidopsis' has a gene called ` AGAMOUS' that plays an important role in defining how many petals and sepals and other organs are generated.
They also promote the production of other hormones and in conjunction with cytokinins, they control the growth of stems, roots, fruits and convert stems into flowers.By Daphne J. Osborne, Michael T. McManus ` Hormones, Signals and Target Cells in Plant Development'.
Auxins are toxic to plants in large concentrations ; they are most toxic to dicots and less so to monocots.
Auxins, especially 1-Naphthaleneacetic acid -LRB- NAA -RRB- and Indole-3-butyric acid -LRB- IBA -RRB-, are also commonly applied to stimulate root growth when taking cuttings of plants.
The most common auxin found in plants is indoleacetic acid or IAA.
Among the most important molecules for plant function are the pigments.
Plant pigments include a variety of different kinds of molecules, including porphyrins, carotenoids, and anthocyanins.
All biological pigments selectively absorb certain wavelengths of light while reflecting others.
The light that is absorbed may be used by the plant to power chemical reactions, while the reflected wavelengths of light determine the color the pigment will appear to the eye.
This is done mainly to mature leaves and roots and is for one of two reasons ; either both the leaves and roots that are pruned are no longer efficient enough nutrient acquisition-wise or that energy and resources are needed in another part of the plant because that part of the plant is faltering in its resource acquisition. \ n Poor productivity reasons for plant self pruning - the plant rarely prunes young dividing meristematic cells, but if a fully grown mature cell is no longer acquiring nutrients that it should acquire, then it is pruned. \ n \ n Shoot efficiency self pruning reasons - for instance, presumably a mature shoot cell must on average produce enough sugar, and acquire enough oxygen and carbon dioxide to support both it and a similar sized root cell.
Actually, since plants are obviously interested in growing it is arguable, that the `` directive '' of the average shoot cell, is to `` show a profit '' and produce or acquire more than enough sugar and gases than is necessary to support both it and a similar sized root cell.
If this `` profit '' is n't shown, the shoot cell is killed off and resources are redistributed to `` promising '' other young shoots or leaves in the hope that they will be more productive. \ n \ n Root efficiency self pruning reasons - similarly a mature root cell must acquire on average, more than enough minerals and water needed to support both it and a similar sized shoot cell that does not acquire water and minerals.
If this does not happen, the root is killed off and resources sent to new young root candidates. \ n Shortage/need-based reason for plant self pruning - this is the other side of efficiency problems.
Local injection of corticosteroids often gives temporary or permanent relief, but may be painful, especially if not combined with a local anesthetic and injected slowly with a small-diameter needle.
Recurrence rates may be lower if injection is performed under ultrasound guidance.
Repeated steroid injections may result in rupture of the plantar fascia.
While this may actually improve pain initially, it has deleterious long-term consequences.
By 1922, Unionists were in the majority in four of the nine counties of Ulster, though not the same counties that were planted.
Consequently, following the Anglo-Irish settlement of 1921, these four counties - and two others in which they formed a sizeable minority - remained in the United Kingdom to form Northern Ireland.
Peanuts are a common snack consumed at performances and sports events, and so the image of Mr. Peanut, well-recognised in Hong Kong, is now associated on the internet with the habit of `` watching a show and eating peanuts ''.
These people are referred to as ????? -LRB- Peanut Guys -RRB-. Mr..
Peanut starred in a 2005 MasterCard commercial ` Icons' along with 9 other mascots from other companies having dinner.
Ideal MHD instabilities driven by current or pressure gradients representthe ultimate operational limit for most configurations.
The long-wavelength kink mode and short-wavelengthballooning mode limits are generally well understood and can in principle be avoided.Intermediate-wavelength modes -LRB- n ~ 5-10 modes encountered in tokamak edge plasmas, forexample -RRB- are less well understood due to the computationally intensive nature of the stabilitycalculations.
The extensive beta limit database for tokamaks is consistent with ideal MHD stability limits, yielding agreement to within about 10 % in beta for cases where the internal profiles of theplasma are accurately measured.
This good agreement provides confidence in ideal stabilitycalculations for other configurations and in the design of prototype fusion reactors.
In the mosquito 's midgut, the gametocytes develop into gametes and fertilize each other, forming motile zygotes called ookinetes.
Here they divide many times to produce large numbers of tiny elongated sporozoites.
The majority appear to be injected into the subcutaneous tissue from which they migrate into the capillaries.
A proportion are ingested by macrophages and still others are taken up by the lymphatic system where they are presumably destroyed.
Their orbits can also be made to curve toward one another.
Plasmoids can also be made to smash each other into fragments.
In most rooms, such walls are finished with paint or wallpaper.
Plaster veneer walls are usually similarly decorated, but unpainted plaster can also serve as a finish.
Two barrels of mortar were made up of equal proportions of lime and sand, one containing the usual quantity of goats' hair, and the other Manila fiber.
It was found that the hair had been almost entirely eaten away by the action of the lime, and the mortar consequently broke up and crumbled quite easily.
The mortar containing the Manila hemp, on the other hand, showed great cohesion, and required some effort to pull it apart, the hemp fiber being apparently quite uninjured.
Enrichments may be moldings added after the main outline molding is set, and are cast in molds made of gelatin or plaster of Paris.
For a cornice molding two running rules are usual, one on the wall, the other on the ceiling, upon which the mold is worked to and fro by one workman, while another man roughly lays on the plaster to the shape of the molding.
The miters at the angles are finished off with joint rules made of sheet steel of various lengths, three or four inches -LRB- 102 mm -RRB- wide, and about one-eighth inch thick, with one end cut to an angle of about 30 °.
Thus, models of minor and obscure subjects are often manufactured using alternative processes.
Vacuum forming is popular for aircraft models, though assembly is more difficult than for injection-molded kits.
Resin-casting, popular with smaller manufacturers, particularly ` Aftermarket' firms -LRB- but also producers of full kits -RRB- yields a greater degree of detail moulded in situ, but as the moulds used do n't last as long, the price of such kits is considerably higher.
In recent times, the latest releases from major manufacturers offer unprecedented detail that is a match for the finest resin kits, often including high-quality mixed-media -LRB- photo-etched brass, turned aluminum -RRB- parts.
Plastic bags are often made from polyethylene, which consists of a long chain of ethylene monomers.
Dixie Bag Co. of College Park GA, owned and operated by J.W. `` The `` Bagman '' McBride was a leader in the new industry and hoped to bring convenient products to all major shopping stores.
From then on, the usage of plastic bags became common for carrying daily groceries from the store, to our vehicles, and finally to our homes.
As plastic bags increasingly replaced paper bags, and as other plastic materials and products replaced glass, metal, stone, timber and other materials, a erupted with plastic shopping bags at the centre of highly publicised battles.
In plastics engineering, as in most engineering disciplines, the economics of a product plays an important role.
Cost is often measured in price per pound of material, or price per unit volume of material.
In plants, plastids may differentiate into several forms, depending upon which function they need to play in the cell.
Undifferentiated plastids -LRB- ` proplastids' -RRB- may develop into any of the following plastids : \ nChloroplasts : for photosynthesis ; ` see also etioplasts, the predecessors of chloroplasts' \ nChromoplasts : for pigment synthesis and storage \ nLeucoplasts : for monoterpene synthesis ; ` leucoplasts sometimes differentiate into more specialized plastids :' \ n \ nAmyloplasts : for starch storage \ n \ n \ nStatoliths : for detecting gravity \ n \ nElaioplasts : for storing fat \ n \ nProteinoplasts : for storing and modifying proteinEach plastid creates multiple copies of the circular 75-250 kilo bases plastome.
The number of genome copies per plastid is flexible, ranging from more than 1000 in rapidly dividing cells, which generally contain few plastids, to 100 or fewer in mature cells, where plastid divisions has given rise to a large number of plastids.
Nuclear genes encode the vast majority of plastid proteins, and the expression of plastid genes and nuclear genes is tightly co-regulated to allow proper development of plastids in relation to cell differentiation.
In the deck-type bridge, a wood, steel or reinforced concrete bridge deck is supported on top of two or more plate girders, and may act compositely with them.
In the case of railroad bridges, the railroad ties themselves may form the bridge deck, or the deck may support ballast on which the track is laid.
Additional beams may span across between the main girders, for example in the form of bridge known as ` ladder-deck' construction.
Also, further elements may be attached to provide cross-bracing and prevent the girders from buckling.
In 1967, W. Jason Morgan proposed that the Earth 's surface consists of 12 rigid plates that move relative to each other.
Two months later, in 1968, Xavier Le Pichon published a complete model based on 6 major plates with their relative motions.
The massif is generally densely wooded, with large areas of both coniferous forest and mixed woodland.
Among the broadleaf trees, birch and beech predominate, and many roads are lined with beeches.
The highest part of the massif, bounded roughly by the villages of Rempnat, Peyrelevade, Millevaches and Saint-Merd-les-Oussines, is the most densely wooded, with little agriculture or even stock-rearing intruding among the forests.
Elsewhere, there is a patchwork of woods and meadows, with herds of Limousin cattle dotting the landscape, and a few fields of maize or rye.
This allowed for more efficient use of large 3D areas and rewarded the player for thorough exploration, but they also often involved more elements of action-adventure games, and less jumping on platforms.
Access to physical system resources -LRB- such as the network access, display, keyboard, and disk storage -RRB- is generally managed at a more restrictive level than the processor and system-memory.
Guests are often restricted from accessing specific peripheral devices, or may be limited to a subset of the device 's native capabilities, depending on the hardware access policy implemented by the virtualization host.
The inherent low sensitivity of the process is because the ferric oxalate is sensitive to ultra-violet light only, thus specialized light sources must be used and exposure times are many times greater than those used in silver-based photographic processes.
On the collecting market, platinum prints often sell for many times what a similar silver-gelatin print would sell for.
He gives a detailed account of the problems usually faced by the oligarchies of his days, which he considered as significantly more troubled than the former system, that of timocracy.
The following are examples of such problems : \ n the very distribution of political power in an oligarchy, which prevents wise and virtuous, but poor, men from influencing public life, whilst opening such possibility to the rich but incompetent ones ; \ n an oligarchy is invariably divided, in the one hand, between very rich men, its governors ; and, on the other hand, very poor men.
Thus the poor ones become either beggars or thugs imbued with anger at their condition and a revolutionary spirit which threatens the internal stability of the state ; \ n an oligarchy will usually perform poorly in military campaigns because the rich men, who are few, will make a small army, and they are afraid to give weapons to the majority, to the poor, due to fears of a revolution.
When a revolution does ensue, and the poor ones become victorious over the rich, the former expel the latter from the city, or kill them, and then they divide their properties between one another.
They were also explicitly permitted to submit as many entries as they wished by sending in a single postcard bearing the number of entries they wished to submit.
Thus a reader who submitted a large number of entries increased his or her chances of winning but reduced the maximum possible value of the prize.
It can be shown mathematically that one maximizes one 's average winnings in this game by submitting a number of entries equal to the total number of entries of others.
Of course, if others take this into account, then this becomes a dubious strategy.
The strongest and best source of light is the sun ; with it, we can discern objects clearly.
Thus, if we attempt to understand why things are as they are, and what general categories can be used to understand various particulars around us, without reference to any forms -LRB- universals -RRB- we will fail completely.
By contrast, `` the domain where truth and reality shine resplendent '' is none other than Plato 's world of forms -- illuminated by the highest of the forms, that of the Good.
Since true being resides in the world of the forms, we must direct our intellect there to have knowledge ; otherwise, we are stuck with mere opinion of what may be likened to passing shadows.
In Platonic realism, forms are related to ` particulars' -LRB- instances of objects and properties -RRB- in that a particular is regarded as a copy of its form.
For example, a particular apple is said to be a copy of the form of ` Applehood' and the apple 's redness is an instance of the form of ` Redness'.
` Participation' is another relationship between forms and particulars.
Particulars are said to ` participate' in the forms, and the forms are said to ` inhere' in the particulars.
In the Canadian Army, the infantry Platoon Commander is a Lieutenant or Second Lieutenant, assisted by a Platoon Warrant -LRB- who may hold the rank of Warrant Officer, but is often a Sergeant -RRB-.
It is usually divided into three eight man sections and a heavy weapons detachment which will deploy a GPMG, Carl Gustav, and/or 60 mm mortar depending on mission requirements.
Specialist platoons may be led by a Captain, assisted by a Warrant Officer.
In many corps, platoon-sized units are called troops instead.
Platt is situated on one of the most active segments of the Diendorf fault line, a geological disturbance traversing Lower Austria from Wieselburg and Melk to Mautern, Krems and Maissau, then continues northward towards the Czech border.
Its movements do not primarily result in earthquakes but rather in the slow but constant formation of subterranean clefts and cavities which destabilize the ground and cause significant damage even to major buildings with strong foundations.
It is often applied to the communities along the North Fork near Bailey.
The narrowest part of the canyon is a remote and roadless gorge -LRB- Waterton Canyon -RRB- approximately 8 miles -LRB- 13 km -RRB- long, at its lower extremity between the hamlet of South Platte and Kassler, where it emerges from the mountains.
On this section, the canyon has walls that rise approximately 1000 ft -LRB- 300 m -RRB- from the river bed.
The river drops from an elevation of approximately 6100 ft at South Platte at the head of the gorge to approximately 5500 ft at the canyon mouth.
It may have a range of up to, with male 's home ranges overlapping with those of 3 or 4 females.
During his life he made many changes in his spelling system.
His developments are the basis for the various spellings used today.
The latter two claim to write in the Old Colony dialect, as seen in their verb endings, while the other three use the Plautdietsch as spoken by the descenders of the Bergthal Colony, i. e. the Old Colony dialect with a loss of - n endings.
One of the most important echoes of Plautus is the stock character of the parasite.
Certainly the best example of this is Falstaff, Shakespeare 's portly and cowardly knight.
As J. W. Draper notes, the gluttonous Falstaff shares many characteristics with a parasite such as Artotrogus from ` Miles Gloriosus.'.
` The Classical Journal' 33 -LRB- 1938 -RRB-, pp. 390-401. Of course, Draper notes that Falstaff is also something of a boastful military man, but notes, `` Falstaff is so complex a character that he may well be, in effect, a combination of interlocking types. ''.
The album introduced Moby to a worldwide mainstream audience, not only through a large number of hit singles -LRB- that helped the album to dominate worldwide charts during over two years -RRB-, but also through unprecedented licensing of his music in films, television and commercial advertisements.
It eventually became the biggest-selling album of its genre, with over 10 million copies sold worldwide.
According to Rolling Stone, '' ` Play' was n't the first album to make a rock star out of an insular techno nerdnik, but it was the first to make one a pop sensation. -LRB- ... -RRB- ` Play' made post-modernism cuddly, slowly but surely striking a chord with critics and record-buyers alike. ''.
Nintendo packed its most popular games into a machine case and called it the PlayChoice-10.
The machine was compatible with the NES, but with some key differences.
Normal NES cartridges could not be used ; rather, the PlayChoice used special expansion cards containing -LRB- usually unmodified -RRB- NES games along with an extra 8KB ROM to display hints.
It was more expensive than the original PlayStation, colored black instead of the usual gray, and most importantly, came with tools and instructions that allowed a user to be able to program PlayStation games and applications without the need for a full developer suite, which cost many times the amount of a PlayStation and was only available to approved video game developers.
The amount of space may seem small, but games like Ridge Racer ran entirely from the system RAM -LRB- except for the streamed music tracks -RRB-.
It would not however play CDR discs, so it was not possible to create self-booting Yaroze games without a modified Playstation.
At E3 2007, Sony was able to show a number of their upcoming video games for the PlayStation 3, including ` Heavenly Sword', ` Lair', ` Ratchet & Clank Future : Tools of Destruction', ` Warhawk' and ` Uncharted : Drake 's Fortune' ; all of which were released in the third and fourth quarters of 2007.
They also showed off a number of titles that were set for release in 2008 and 2009 ; most notably ` Killzone 2', ` Infamous', ` Gran Turismo 5 Prologue', ` LittleBigPlanet' and ` SOCOM : U.S. Navy SEALs Confrontation'.
A number of third-party exclusives were also shown, including the highly-anticipated ` Metal Gear Solid 4 : Guns of the Patriots', alongside other high-profile third-party titles such as ` Grand Theft Auto 4', ` Call of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare', ` Assassin 's Creed', ` Devil May Cry 4' and ` Resident Evil 5'.
Two other important titles for the PlayStation 3, ` Final Fantasy XIII' and ` Final Fantasy Versus XIII', were shown at TGS 2007 in order to appease the Japanese market.
At E3 2007, Sony was able to show a number of their upcoming video games for the PlayStation 3, including ` Heavenly Sword', ` Lair', ` Ratchet & Clank Future : Tools of Destruction', ` Warhawk' and ` Uncharted : Drake 's Fortune' ; all of which were released in the third and fourth quarters of 2007.
They also showed off a number of titles that were set for release in 2008 and 2009 ; most notably ` Killzone 2', ` Infamous', ` Gran Turismo 5 Prologue', ` LittleBigPlanet' and ` SOCOM : U.S. Navy SEALs Confrontation'.
Two other important exclusive titles for the PlayStation 3, ` Final Fantasy Versus XIII' and ` White Knight Chronicles', were shown at TGS 2007 in order to appease the Japanese market.
The user can create their own avatar or use one of several preset avatars available in Home.
Users can access the Wardrobe from the Menu Pad at any time and location except when in another user 's personal apartment.
They may customise a variety of the characters features including gender, skin tone, hair, body shape and facial structure.
They may also customise their avatar 's clothing and accessories using a set of standard items, items bought from one of the clothing shops in Home 's shopping complex, or won items from Home 's mini-games or PS3 games that support Home rewards.
Post incorporation has marked major improvements in infrastructure.
Due to rapid growth, some streets are indeed still unpaved, however the vast majority of streets have been improved with pavement, curbs and street lights.
The city announced in late 2008 that the Baja water and sewer utility was expediting completion of major projects and paving would soon be complete.
The major downtown corridor, Boulevard Benito Juarez, is on a steady rejuvenation plan, where all new period street lights, wide sidewalks, curbs and gutters are being constructed.
Chessbase provides the proprietary Playchess software, which is included with popular computer chess software like Fritz, Junior or Shredder.
Alternately, users may download the client software, a pared down version of the Fritz GUI.
New users may try the server for a short period of time before access requires a serial number.
Guests may always log in for free, but have limited access.The software has functions to try to detect players using the assistance of chess programs -LRB- mainly by task switching -RRB-. This is a competitor to other commercial servers, such as Internet Chess Club -LRB- ICC -RRB-, World Chess Live -LRB- WCL -RRB- and the non-commercial Free Internet Chess Server -LRB- FICS -RRB-.
Dueling ladders and leagues setup by fans are common for most MMORPGs that have PvP.
` Dark Age of Camelot' was the first graphical MMORPG to debut a formal dueling system ingame -LRB- Ballista -RRB- ; other MMORPGs such as ` City of Heroes', ` World of Warcraft', ` Guild Wars', ` Lineage 2' and ` RuneScape' feature PvP as competitive, consensual dueling in a group setting.
This removes the unpredictable element from PvP, allowing players to challenge each other on `` even '' ground.
The standard 52-card deck is commonly known as a `` poker '' deck in Taiwan, Japan, China, and South Korea.
Alternatively, a more common name in Japan and Korea for the same deck is trump -LRB- ???? torampu, ??? teureompeu respectively -RRB- which comes from the term trump card.
These cards are most often used for baccarat and blackjack in casinos, or deciding the order of play or challenge in games of billiards.
Poker itself and other western games are relatively unknown ; however, there do exist East Asian games using the poker deck, such as Daifugo and Two-ten-jack.
An aggregate playoff consists of a series of extra holes, usually three or four, with the player with the lowest cumulative score being declared the winner.
If there is still a tie after completion of these holes, then further sudden death holes are usually played.
One flaw of this system is that it takes longer to complete, meaning that a tournament may risk not being over before sunset.
In the U.S. and Canada, the vast distances and consequent burdens on cross-country travel have led to regional groupings of teams, usually called ` divisions.'.
Since every team has not necessarily had a chance to prove itself against every other team, a playoff is necessary every season.
As playoffs became more popular, they were expanded to allow teams that finished second or even lower in the grouping to participate.
If a team has to be the best of all the lower-ranked teams, these teams are known as wild card teams, such as in the Major League Baseball system.
` Plaçage' was a recognized extralegal system in which white French and Spanish and later Creole men entered into the equivalent of common-law marriages with women of African, Indian and white -LRB- European -RRB- Creole descent.
The women were not legally recognized as wives, but were known as ` placées' ; their relationships were recognized among the free people of color as ` mariages de la main gauche' or ` left-handed marriages'.
Many were often quarteronnes or quadroons, the offspring of a European and a mulatto, but plaçage did occur between whites and mulattoes and blacks.
Plaçage, however, drew most of its fame -- and notoriety -- from its open application in New Orleans.
The company 's growth was rapid as it added dolls, books, clothing for dolls and girls, and numerous other accessories, such as dollhouses and children 's furniture.
In marketing synergy, her company created stores in major cities, events, and films planned around the dolls and their accessories.
For instance, parents may pay to reserve space at stores for American Girl parties for their daughters and friends.
Stores have public restaurants where mothers and daughters can have tea or other meals.
` Please Give Me a Job !' is a Malaysian reality television programme produced by Red Communications and 8TV which features 10 fresh graduates vying for job placements in various companies.
In each episode, the contestants compete in groups and take on various tasks.
Throughout the show, contestants are to take on various challenges from companies of different iindustries.
After each challenge, the management of each company will choose a number of contestants which they feel fit to be interviewed and one of them will eventually be given the job opening.
After failing to become an advertising man on New York 's Madison Avenue, Bean returned to the UK in 1896 and having experienced the Coney Island funfair decided to open his own small business in Great Yarmouth, consisting of numerous small merry-go-rounds and a pedal-bike monorail called Hotchkiss 's Patent Bicycle Railroad.
In 1903 Bean along with businessman John Outhwaite purchased 30 acres of land known as the `` Watson Estate '' to be rented out by various trade stalls and traditional fairground rides.
After months of success, the park started to seal itself as a major attraction outside of the United States.
It was acclaimed by European critics who attended the premiere screening.
Nana A. T. Rebhan of Germany 's arts and culture Channel Arte described the film as a `` convincing portrait of a never-before-seen red-light district '' and said `` what makes this movie so special are the moments when people in the ` factory' step out of their usual rhythms - not functioning the way they should, unsure of their own actions and emotions. ''.
However, a controversial scene in which a young Chinese Singaporean man -LRB- Zihan Loo -RRB- is shown stripping off his clothes, initially with a leg raised to hide his genitals, until he is totally frontally naked with his erecting penis fully exposed, and then masturbates his penis -LRB- sliding his foreskin all the way back -RRB-, culminating in his fully exposed partially-erect penis shown being flicked against his stomach several times as it gradually extends and raises upwards into a full adult erection, with his glans head and frenulum fully exposed, was removed by Singaporean and Malaysian censors prior to distribution -LRB- but remains in the international version -RRB-.
This shopping center also has a retail building built suited for several tenants.
Since the completion of the Greenbelt, many subdivisions have been built along or near the belt to allow for easy access to I-264 and I-265.
A popular teen nightclub, the Electric Cowboy, also opened in 2007 near the corner of Dixie Highway and Greenwood Road.
This club opened in a newly built retail center that houses several other tenants.
For example, most English speakers would agree that `` tuna fish '' is redundant because tuna is a kind of fish.
In this way, they can rehydrate the quickest when rain comes, as most of the water is absorbed on the underside of the leaf blades.
For comparison, most other plants would die after losing only 8-12 %.
This fern can lose almost all the water not hydrating the cells in its leaves and survive.
A chest tube may be inserted, often using ultrasound guidance.
If this is insufficient, surgical debridement of the pleural space may be required.
This is frequently done using thoracoscopic techniques but if the the disease is chronic, a limited thoracotomy may be necessary to fully drain the empyema and remove the filbrinopurulent excudate from the lung and from the chest wall.
To combat this problem, surgeons will often place large bore chest tubes, or more than one chest tube.
` Plomin' is a village in the Croatian part of Istria, situated approximately 11 km north of Labin, on an 80 meters high hill.
It is a popular destination for tourists traveling through Istria by road.Originally named ` Flanona', the settlement was built in Roman times, above the bay bearing the same name.
However, it has since been repopulated, and is today home to approximately 130 people.
The buildings in the town are several hundred years old, built on the ruins of the original Roman houses.
At the age of forty, during the reign of Philip the Arab, he came to Rome, where he stayed for most of the remainder of his life.
There he attracted a number of students.
Other students included : Zethos, an Arab by ancestry who died before Plotinus, leaving him a legacy and some land ; Zoticus, a critic and poet ; Paulinus, a doctor of Scythopolis ; and Serapion from Alexandria.
SBL. who say that `` to gain some credible chronology, one assumes that Ariston married Amphicleia some time after Plotinus 's death '' Finally, Plotinus was a correspondent of the philosopher Cassius Longinus.
The Bulgarians are a majority followed by Gypsies and Turks.
The vast majority of the inhabitants are Christians - mostly Eastern Orthodox, but there are also Catholics, Eastern Catholics and Protestant trends -LRB- Adventists, Baptists and others -RRB-.
There are also some Muslims and Jews.
In Plovdiv there are many churches, two mosques and a synagogue.
In one short, Baby Plucky discovers that items in the toilet bowl disappear when the toilet is flushed -LRB- `` Water go down the ` hoooOOolle'. '' -RRB-, and proceeds to flush various items simply to watch them vanish, not realizing until far too late that he was clogging the plumbing.
In another, Baby Plucky and his mother -LRB- who was heard but only shown from the waist down, similar to the appearances of Nanny on the animated series ` Muppet Babies' and the characters of Mom and Dad from ` Cow and Chicken' -RRB- visit a shopping mall and Plucky 's obsession with an elevator -LRB- `` Wan na go on the el-a-lator.
Yet another cartoon has Baby Plucky and his father -LRB- also seen only from the waist down -RRB- playing miniature golf, in which Plucky manages to infuriate his father by either hitting the golfball too lightly or hitting it so hard that it bounces off things and injures Plucky 's dad, often by striking him in the groin.
At the end of the episode he hits the `` free game '' button so hard he gets several dozen balls.
It may also survive on wild plum, hawthorn, and crabapple.
It is found most commonly in areas east of the Rocky Mountains and in eastern Canada.
The beetles are most active during the spring time when the weather is warm, damp, and cloudy.
They are often seen in heavy leafed trees.
The majority of Oakmont Country Club is within Plum 's borders.
The course has been consistently ranked as one of the five best by Golf Digest 100 Greatest Golf Courses in America.
It is one of only a few courses ranked every year in the top ten of the publication 's history.
It hosted its eighth U.S. Open in 2007, the most of any course.
Almost all species of birds moult at least annually, usually after the breeding season, known as the ` pre-basic moult'.
This resulting covering of feathers, which will last either until the next breeding season or until the next annual moult, is known as the ` basic plumage'.
Many species undertake another moult prior to the breeding season known as the ` pre-alternate moult', the resulting breeding plumage being known as the ` alternate plumage' or ` nuptial plumage'.
The alternate plumage is often brighter than the basic plumage, for the purposes of sexual display, but may also be cryptic in order to hide incubating birds that might be vulnerable on the nest.Humphrey, P.S. and K.C. Parkes. 1959.
Two other Englishmen should be referred to, Robert and George White, father and son.
The former -LRB- 1645-1704 -RRB- was a pupil of Loggan and a prolific engraver, and most of his drawings, executed on vellum, were for the purpose of engraving.
By Robert White there are remarkable portraits of Bunyan and Sir Matthew Hale in the British Museum, and his own portrait at Welbeck ; and by him and his son there are other drawings in private collections, depicting Sir Godfrey Kneller, Archbishop Tenison and others.
Such views make the ` singularist assumption', that every plural predication is at its root a singular predication, thus making it possible to apply the framework of standard first-order logic.
No set ever surrounds a building, though its members may.
The fact that some individuals are surrounding a building does not automatically imply that some single individual -LRB- of any kind -RRB- surrounds the building.
Pluralists emphasize that power is not a physical entity that individuals either have or do not have, but flows from a variety of different sources.
Rather, people are powerful because they control various resources.
Resources are assets that can be used to force others to do what one wants.
Politicians become powerful because they command resources that people want or fear or respect.
It can also grow on sawdust and other wood waste.
It is edible, but not often collected for the table.
Plutons include batholiths, dikes, sills, laccoliths, lopoliths, and other igneous bodies.
In practice, `` pluton '' usually refers to a distinctive mass of igneous rock, typically kilometers in dimension, without a tabular shape like those of dikes and sills.
Batholiths commonly are aggregations of plutons.
The most common rock types in plutons are granite, granodiorite, tonalite, and quartz diorite.
Following the `` Remembrance '' meeting, there may be one other Sunday meeting, or perhaps more.
Whereas the purpose of the Lord 's Supper is predominantly for worship, recalling the person and work of Christ, other meetings will involve Bible teaching, evangelism and gospel preaching -LRB- among young and old -RRB-.
Sunday Schools and Bible classes are common.
Bible teaching may be given either in the form of a ministry meeting in which a sermon is delivered or in a `` Bible reading '' or `` Bible study, '' in which the men discuss a portion of Scripture.
Children generally remained in the direct care of their mothers until the age of about eight years old, after which time it was not uncommon for the child to be placed in the foster care of another family.Demos -LRB- 1970 -RRB-, p 141 There were any number of reasons for a child to be `` put-out '' in this manner.
Some children were placed into households to learn a trade, others to be taught to read and write.
By placing a child in the care of another family, there was little danger of a child being spoiled.Demos -LRB- 1970 -RRB-, pp 71 -- 75.
PCC, which overlooks Plymouth Bay, is located a few miles from Plymouth Rock, Plimoth Plantation and the ` Mayflower II' near the junction of Route 3A and the Plimoth Plantation Highway.
The membership waiting list is generally in the 2 - to 3-year area.
Plymouth State University 's athletic teams are known as the Panthers.
PSU competes in NCAA Division III Little East Conference -LRB- LEC -RRB- for most of its intercollegiate sports.
Every year the President 's Cup is awarded to the school which has more victories in total sports competitions against each other.
Plymouth contains several small ponds scattered throughout its western quadrant, the largest being the Great Herring Pond -LRB- which is partly in the town of Bourne -RRB-.
A major feature of the town is the Myles Standish State Forest, which is in the southwestern region.
There is also a smaller town forest, as well as several parks, recreation areas and beaches.
All of the Jews of Pliskov stayed in the town, and most of the blame fell upon the Stalin regime.
Ivanko announced that all Jews of Pliskov would be deprived of all their rights and personal property, and every Ukrainian could take possession of that property except for gold, platinum, silver and other valuables which would pass to Germany.
Not that many people were willing to so.
Those who survived the Holocaust of 1941-1945 have moved to many countries.
The cysts often collapse forming crescent-shaped bodies visible in stained tissue.
When pleural fluid is present in a person with pneumonia, the fluid can often be collected with a needle -LRB- thoracentesis -RRB- and examined.
Depending on the results of this examination, complete drainage of the fluid may be necessary, often requiring a chest tube.
In severe cases of empyema, surgery may be needed.
If the fluid is not drained, the infection may persist, because antibiotics do not penetrate well into the pleural cavity.
Fresh eggs will yield the best results.
To prevent dispersion of the white of the egg, a small amount of vinegar may be added to the boiling water.
Stirring the water vigorously to create a vortex may reduce said dispersion.
Special pans, with several small cups, allow a number of eggs to be poached at the same time ; silicone `` poach pods '' allow one egg to be poached without risk of dispersion.
Other than the table having pockets, the balls for pocket billiards are generally smaller and range from in diameter to in diameter.
-LRB- By comparison Carom billiard balls are generally, or.
While UMB, the International Olympic Committee-recognized world carom billiards authority, permits balls as small as, no major manufacturer produces such balls any longer, and the ` de facto' standard is.
Modern cues are generally long for pocket billiards while cues prior to 1980 were designed for ` straight pool' and had an average length of, while carom billiards cues are generally long.
Notable pocket universes include : \ nPocket Realities are usually presented in the Marvel Universe as either comparatively small reachable but separate `` dimensions '', such as realms of magic with recurrently greatly diverging laws of physics, or as contained within/linked to outwardly small objects with tesseract qualities, that make them far larger on the inside than the outside, such as the -LRB- from inside apparently full-sized -RRB- universe within the Soul Gem or the Heroes Reborn sphere.
The container in which Chichikov stores his deeds and other items in Dead Souls \ nAll variations of the Poké Ball in the Pokémon games, manga and anime.
The Room of Requirement at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in the ` Harry Potter' series \ nBags of holding and portable holes from Dungeons and Dragons -LRB- literally a `` pocket '' universe in some cases -RRB- \ nDemiplanes in the D&D cosmology \ nThe interior of a TARDIS, from Doctor Who -LRB- and, indeed, the pockets of the Doctor 's coat -RRB- \ nThe Tesseracted Volume of Dr. Reed Richards, of the ` Fantastic Four' \ nThe ` Land of the Lost' \ nHammerspace, a humorous concept used by fans to explain where cartoon characters are able to pull items from `` out of nowhere. ''.
In the 853rd century DC Universe, as seen in ` DC One Million', every city in the Solar System is built into its own pocket universe, leaving the planetary surfaces almost untouched.
Photon Nanotrance technology found in Phantasy Star Universe \ nOmnyou Mystics from the anime series Magical Shopping Arcade Abenobashi main responsibility was to create an alternative universe for people when something tragic had happened to them.
The D'ni used books to for many things, refuge, prison, industry, ex.
In the final season Andromeda -LRB- TV series -RRB-, Dylan Hunt, and the rest of the crew of the Andromeda discover that the Seefera System is an artificial Solar System created by the Vedrans and placed inside a Pocket Universe in order to hide Tarn Vedra and to create a braking system for Trance 's sun when it returns to the system. \ n The surfaces of each world in the popular game Kingdom Hearts. \ n Terranigma features a small box which Ark carries with him, that he can climb into to find various rooms including an armory, inventory screen and study. \ n In the videogame Chrono Trigger, Lavos has its own pocket universe. \ n In Superman continuity the Phantom Zone is often depicted as a pocket dimension. \ n In the ` Master of Orion' series, part of the story involves the orion race imprisoning their enemies, the antaran race, along with their entire home star system inside what is stated to be a ` pocket dimension'. \ n In the ` Kirby : Right Back at Ya !' anime series, rather than into any particular organ, what Kirby consumes seems to enter a ` pocket universe' of sorts, depicted with a backdrop of outer space.
The construct of the academy in both the series, manga, video-game, movie and the manga based on the movie is shown to be a form of `` another '' world where extraordinary things happen without any ` logical' reason - also the whole storyline faces a theme to break free from the academy and go to the Outside World.
The outer rim now forms an irregular ring of peaks, broken in several locations by small craters.
The most intact portion of the rim is a small arc along the eastern side.
However there is a level plain in the eastern half of the interior that is almost flat and featureless.
This region is marked only by a few low ridges around the fringes and some tiny craterlets.
To commence play, the bowler at one end throws the ball underarm towards the stumps at the opposite end ; this ball may not bounce before the stumps -LRB- should the batsman fail to connect with it -RRB-, nor travel too high or too low -LRB- both of which should be called as such by the umpire, as thus become ` no-balls' -RRB-.
As in cricket, a batsman may hit a no-ball without risk of being caught or bowled, though he may be run out if he opts to make runs.
If the batsman fails to hit the ball, and the ball does not hit the stumps, the second bowler -LRB- at the end to which the ball has just been bowled -RRB- collects the ball and may then bowl it back to the second batsman at the opposite end.
This sequence continues until one or other of the batsman makes a legal hit.
Podophyllin has been used to remove genital warts since its efficacy was first demonstrated in 1942, although the reliability of this early report has been questioned.
Petroleum jelly, such as Vaseline, may be used to protect normal tissue near the warts from irritation.
A health professional usually applies the resin once a week for at least 6 weeks or until warts disappear.
On August 15, 2007, the ` Baltimore Sun' broke the story that 92-year old Sam Porpora claimed that he had started the Poe Toaster tradition.Tucker, Abigail.
Baltimore Sun. 15 August 2007. Porpora, who had been given the title of historian for the Westminster Church in the late 1960s, claimed that he started the tradition to reinvigorate the church and its congregation.
Associated Press. 15 August 2007. Jeff Jerome, of the Edgar Allan Poe Society, however, says the tradition was real and that the earliest newspaper article about the Poe Toaster dates back to 1950, predating Porpora 's claims that he made it up in 1967..
Washington Post. 18 August 2007. Jeff Savoye, another officer in the Edgar Allan Poe Society, also questions his claims.
The piece requires ten `` performers '', and most of their efforts take place without the audience present.
Once they are all fully wound they are all started as simultaneously as possible.
As the metronomes wind down one after another and stop, periodicity becomes noticeable in the sound, and individual metronomes can be more clearly made out.
The piece typically ends with just one metronome ticking alone for a few beats.
In many languages, including modern European languages and Arabic, poets use rhyme in set patterns as a structural element for specific poet forms, such as ballads, sonnets and rhyming couplets.
Some rhyming schemes have become associated with a specific language, culture or period, while other rhyming schemes have achieved use across languages, cultures or time periods.
Some forms of poetry carry a consistent and well-defined rhyming scheme, such as the chant royal or the rubaiyat, while other poetic forms have variable rhyme schemes.
Though poetry slams are maintained in a growing number of cities by local volunteer organizers, the vast majority of slam series follow the rules established by PSI, PSI 's founders and its members.
The Executive Council, headed by a seven-member Executive Council of poets and slam organizers, and voted on by representatives of local slams -LRB- SlamMasters -RRB-, maintains a vigilant watch of poetry slam series worldwide, insuring that slam maintains itself as an art form open to all competitors.
Through the certification process and its annual organizational meetings, PSI has created the backbone for a community of poets who are in frequent communication with one another, in order to pool ideas and share creative resources to insure the future growth and recognition of slam.
Poets from the community frequently embark on poetry tours in other slam cities, relying on each other to set up the venues and housing necessary for such tours.
Like Shakespeare 's `` Shall I Compare Thee to a Summer 's Day '', this poem uses a sustained image to describe another person.
Frost draws out an extended comparison between a woman and a silken tent in order to make some essential aspect of the woman 's character real and available to the reader.
These badges were inherited from one generation to other.
One of them are in red, other in gold color.
The population of Pohnpei is approximately 34,000.
Pohnpei is more ethnically diverse than any other island in the FSM.
This is largely due to it being home to the capital of the national government, which employs hundreds of people from the other FSM States having distinct ethnic and cultural origins.
The indigenous makeup also includes people from the outer islands within the State, which comprise multiple regional ethnicities.
In some cases Hamilton was able to show that this works ; for example, if the manifold has positive Ricci curvature everywhere he showed that the manifold becomes extinct in finite time under Ricci flow without any other singularities.
-LRB- In other words, the manifold collapses to a point in finite time ; it is easy to describe the structure just before the manifold collapses. -RRB-.
Perelman showed how to continue past these singularities : very roughly, he cuts the manifold along the singularities, splitting the manifold into several pieces, and then continues with the Ricci flow on each of these pieces.
This procedure is known as ` Ricci flow with surgery'.
The Indians were part of the third people indigenous to the area, the Canalinos.
These `` hunting people '' gradually merged with a third race, the Canalinos, on the latter 's arrival.
In his book ` The Natural History of the Point Reyes Peninsula', Jules Evens identifies several plant communities.
One of the most prominent is the Coastal Douglas-fir -LRB- ` Pseudotsuga menziesii' -RRB- forest, which includes Coast live oak, Tanoak, and California bay and reaches across the southern half of Inverness Ridge toward Bolinas Lagoon.
The Coast Miwok people who once lived in the area set frequent fires to clear brush and increase game animal populations, and early explorers' accounts describe the hills as bare and grassy.
Point-and-shoot cameras are distinguished from single-lens reflex cameras -LRB- SLRs -RRB- in several respects : The image that the photographer sees through the viewfinder of a point-and-shoot camera is not the same image that passes through the primary lens of the camera -LRB- that is, the lens that projects the image onto the film or, in the case of digital cameras, the image sensor -RRB-.
SLRs, on the other hand, have only one lens, and a mirror diverts the image from the lens into the viewfinder ; that mirror then retracts when the picture is taken so that the image can be recorded on the film or sensor.
Digital cameras obviate the need for the SLR design to some degree, as the camera 's LCD image is projected through the lens, not a separate viewfinder.
There have only been two people in the room since the pearls were last seen - Mrs Opalsen 's maid, Celestine, and the hotel chambermaid.
Both girls are questioned and both blame the other.
The two maids were in sight of each other all the time except for two pauses of between twelve and fifteen seconds apiece when Celestine went into her room -- not enough time to extract the jewel case from the drawer, open it, take the jewels and return the case.
The valet was on the other side of the bolted door and the chambermaid passed him the case in the first interval when Celestine was in her room.
Mrs. Carrington was carrying with her jewels amounting to a value of almost one hundred thousand pounds to wear at the house party.
At Bristol the maid, Jane Mason, received a surprise : Mrs. Carrington told her to wait at the station for a few hours while she travelled on to some unspecified destination.
She would return in a few hours and they would get a later connection for the Plymouth line.
After waiting at Bristol for most of the day, Mason checked into a hotel for the night and read of the murder in the next day 's paper.
After too many years of exposing herself to toxins, and modifying her own DNA to the point of losing most of her humanity, a dying Poison Ivy makes her way to a Dr. Holland, who is practicing science in a small cottage in the middle of nowhere.
As this happens, Holland cries out `` Pamela '', which is quickly interrupted by another Pamela Isley, who looks exactly as she appeared in ` Batman : The Animated Series', regular human skin and all.
She states that this Ivy was a vegetable creature from a few years back, that she had created as a distraction for Batman, in order to escape from her old supervillain life in Gotham.
This leads readers to believe that the revamped Poison Ivy that appeared in ` The New Batman Adventures', as well as the subsequent stories that followed, was a copy all along, and that the real Pamela Isley had left her life of crime to run away during the two year gap between both series.
Blackberries and raspberries -LRB- ` Rubus' spp. -RRB- can resemble poison ivy, with which they may share territory.
The chief difference between blackberries and raspberries, on the one hand, and poison ivy, on the other, is that blackberries and raspberries almost always have prickles on the stems, whereas poison ivy is smooth.
Also, the three-leaflet pattern of some blackberry and raspberry leaves changes as the plant grows : leaves produced later in the season have five leaflets rather than three.
Blackberries and raspberries have many fine teeth along the leaf edge, the top surface of their leaves is very wrinkled where the veins are, and the bottom of the leaves is light minty-greenish white.
A wash for 100 gallons of fresh water was said to contain six stone of potatoes, six stone of sugar and some yeast.
Stills were often set up on land boundaries so the issue of ownership could be disputed.
The still had to be heated and attended to for several days to allow the runs to go through.
These claims have been rejected by the government which also threatened demolition of the village.
In the Qing Dynasty Kangxi period -LRB- late 17th c -RRB- chaos occurred when approximately 2,000 people seeking asylum from mainland China reached this point.
In 1819 `` Xinan County annals '', mentioned that Lin Ts ` un was in Hong Kong Island and was one of two villages -LRB- another encircles Huang Chuk ` eng Hong Kong -RRB-.
The village inhabitation only then started to reduce, but at present still many villagers live in Yu Ts ` unnei.Cultural celebrations include Lin Ts ` unhsiang the big pit, also the dance procession of lanterns or torches, the Midautumn festival.
Draytons, McWilliams, Lindemans, Tyrrells, Jay Tulloch and The Rothbury Estate still knock out some old-style Hunter wines with the likes of Brokenwood and Bimbadgen Estate leading the charge for the `` new chums ''.
There is a vast array of accommodation in the area due to the wine industry and Pokolbins' proximity to Sydney -LRB- approximately 160 kilometres north -RRB-.
As in other famous similar cases in middle age Europe -LRB- such as Foix, or Dauphiné -RRB-, the local feodal had to swear oath of allegiance to the king ` for the specific territory', even when the former was himself an independent ruler of another state.
Moreover, when abandoning the siege, his army ran into a trap, was decimated, and many nobles were killed.
The game received mixed receptions from critics.
The main complaint from critics was over the game 's lack of interactivity since most of the gametime is spent watching television.
The good reviews were more lenient on these points, stating that it was likely designed with younger players in mind.
The games enjoyed more commercial success than their Game Boy Advance predecessors : with around 15 million units sold worldwide, ` Diamond' and ` Pearl' have sold around 1 million more units than ` Ruby' and ` Sapphire' and almost 3 million more units than ` FireRed' and ` LeafGreen'.
When the two legendary Pokémon begin to battle each other, the protagonist must unleash Rayquaza the legendary Pokémon -LRB- pictured on the box cover -RRB- to calm them.
Though double battles were clearly marked in ` Ruby' and ` Sapphire', in 'Em erald', two separate trainers might unite to battle as a pair.
After the Elite Four is defeated, the player may re-battle Gym Leaders in a double battle.
Probably the most significant addition is the Battle Frontier, an expanded version of the Battle Tower in ` Ruby' and ` Sapphire'.
Two people remained hospitalized for over 2 weeks.
Mewtwo reveals itself to Ash, his friends, and three other trainers who braved the storm to be the `` World 's Greatest Pokémon Master, '' and that it had created the storm with its powers to test the trainers' will.
In its grief, Pikachu starts weeping for its fallen master, the other Pokémon in the arena following suit.
It leaves the island with Mew and the cloned Pokémon, erasing everyone else 's memory of the horrifying incident, knowing it 's for the best.
At his funeral she `` fainted '' several times, and arranged for a large floral arrangement, which spelled out her name, to be placed on Valentino 's coffin.
Negri allegedly kept Valentino 's picture on her bedside table until the end of her life, always insisting he had been the great love of her life.
One hundred people lived in over twenty houses supported by pillars, with walls made of beams, finished with clay and painted.
After the Celts evacuated the area the Nowa Cerekiew settlement remained uninhabited for 150 years, before being reoccupied by the Przeworsk culture people and later the Slavs.
Objects recently found at Nowa Cerekiew include a collection of gold and silver coins minted by the Boii tribe -LRB- 3rd - 2nd century BC -RRB-, Greek coins from Sicily and other colonies, and various metal decorative items.
Nowa Cerekiew was a major Celtic trade and political center, one of the very few in central Europe, a source of great profits and northernmost of their Amber Road stations.'.
First settlements appear in the early 6th century and can not be directly derived from any other Slavic archeological culture.
According to some scholars like Siedow, Kurnatowska and Brzostowicz, it might be a direct continuation of the Przeworsk tradition.
According to allochthonists, it represents a variant of the Prague culture and is considered its younger stage.
Unlike brown and black bears, polar bears are capable of fasting for up to several months during late summer and early fall, when they can not hunt for seals because the sea is unfrozen.
Polar bears have also been observed to eat a wide variety of other wild foods, including muskox, reindeer, birds, eggs, rodents, shellfish, crabs, and other polar bears.
They may also eat plants, including berries, roots, and kelp, however none of these are a significant part of their diet.
Frozen ground covers most of the polar regions for the majority of the year.
Due to the permafrost the water in the soil remains frozen for most of the year.
Weathering is also common in polar regions.
Direct observation of phonon-polariton propagation was made possible by real-space imaging, in which the spatial and temporal profiles of phonon-polaritons are imaged onto a CCD camera using Talbot phase-to-amplitude conversion.
Real-space imaging is the preferred detection technique in polaritonics, though other more conventional techniques like optical Kerr-gating, time resolved diffraction, interferometric probing, and terahertz field induced second harmonic generation are useful in some applications where real-space imaging is not easily employed.
For example, patterned materials with feature sizes on the order of a few tens of micrometres cause parasitic scattering of the imaging light.
Phonon-polariton detection is then only possible by focusing a more conventional probe, like those mentioned before, into an unblemished region of the crystal.
While an electromagnetic metaphor is often used, Stone emphasized that the energy concept had a larger context ; he referred to it as the `` Breath of Life `` Stone, R. : `` Polarity Therapy Vol. I '', page 2.
It was popular in Europe in the 16th. and 17th. centuries.
Surviving examples have a variety of head forms but there are two main variants, one with the side blades -LRB- known as flukes or wings -RRB- branching from the neck of the central blade at 45 degrees, the other with hooked blades curving back towards the haft.
The corseque is usually associated with the ` rawcon', ranseur and ` runka'.
Polish people are the sixth largest national group in Europe.NationMaster.com 2003-2008.
There are almost 39 million Poles in Poland alone.
There are some smaller autochthonous minorities in nearby countries such as Moldova and Latvia.
The military policing responsibilities of the Marshal of France were delegated to the Marshal 's provost, whose force was known as the Marshalcy because its authority ultimately derived from the Marshal.
The common victims are journalist who made a report of an incident that is done wrongly by the police.
A ` police motorcycle' is a motorcycle used by various police forces and departments.
They may be custom designed to meet the requirements unique of a particular use.
A police motorcycle is often called a `` motor '' by police officers in the United States.
Similarly, ` motorcycle units' are known as '' ` motor units' '' and motorcycle officers are known as motor officers.
The success of ` Tracy' led to many more police strips.
While some, like Norman Marsh 's ` Dan Dunn' were unabashedly slavish imitations of ` Tracy', others, like Dashiell Hammett 's and Alex Raymond 's ` Secret Agent X-9', took a more original approach.
Still others, like Eddie Sullivan 's and Charlie Schmidt 's ` Radio Patrol' and Will Gould 's ` Red Barry', steered a middle course.
One of the best post - ` Tracy' procedural comics was ` Kerry Drake', written and created by Allen Saunders and illustrated by Alfred Andriola.
Formal uniform comprises an open-necked tunic -LRB- with or without an attached belt, depending on the force and rank of the Officer -RRB- and trousers or skirt, worn with a white or light blue shirt and black tie -LRB- usually clip-on, so it can not be used to strangle the wearer -RRB-.
In addition, the popular Midnight University web board was shut down for what the government claimed were posts offensive to the monarchy.Bangkok Post, The Role of the Monarchy in Censorship, 28 July 2006 \ n The repeal of junta restrictions against organizing protests on 9 November 2006.
However, martial law has been lifted in most of the country.The Nation,, 12 November 2006 \ n The approval of a law that would imprison anyone found guilty of forwarding a pornographic email up to three years.Bangkok Post, 3 Years in Jail for a Porn Email, 16 November 2006 \ n The establishment of a 14,000-strong special operations force with a mandate to control anti-junta protests.
General Saprang Kallayanamit, assistant Secretary-General of the CNS, was appointed Commander of the force.The Nation,, 27 December 2006Bangkok Post,, 27 December 2006 \ n Arresting 26 Bo Bae Market illegal vendors protesting their forced relocation following a major fire.
The protestors were charged with participating in an illegal gathering attended by more than 10 people.The Nation,, 5 January 2007 They later refused to air an interview that Thaksin had earlier made.The Nation,, 16 January 2007 \ n Censorship of all mention of Thaksin Shinawatra from television. \ n The torture of suspected insurgents by the military in the South.
The actions the organization actually takes may often vary significantly from stated policy.
This difference is sometimes caused by political compromise over policy, while in other situations it is caused by lack of policy implementation and enforcement.
Implementing policy may have unexpected results, stemming from a policy whose reach extends further than the problem it was originally crafted to address.
Additionally, unpredictable results may arise from selective or idiosyncratic enforcement of policy.
The teams may also present a decision calculus for the judge to decide the case : for instance, they may insist that the judge examine the case in a deontological rather than consequentialist framework.
A deontological framework implies that the judge should examine certain impacts or actions of the case before other impacts.
In other words, as long as something good comes of an action, anything bad done on the way does n't matter.
An example would be if one team says that the judge must prevent famine before anything else but the other team says that they prevent more deaths and that is what the judge should vote on, no matter how those deaths happened.
The National Debate Coaches' Association hosts an annual tournament at the end of the year, with a qualification process based on points achieved at various tournaments.
Eventually, the position of the Ace, common to old French card games, may be changed.
The players may decide to try and take all the tricks in a hand.
This is known as `` general '' and the player must announce his intention before he leads to the first trick.
If he succeeds, all the other players score 5 penalty points.
During the race to develop an oral polio vaccine several large scale human trials were undertaken.
In Africa, the vaccines were administered to roughly one million people in the Belgian territories, now the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi.
As one of the largest disabled groups in the world polio survivors also helped to advance the modern disability rights movement through campaigns for the social and civil rights of the disabled.
The World Health Organization estimates that there are 10 to 20 million polio survivors worldwide.
According to doctors and local polio support groups, some 40,000 polio survivors with varying degrees of paralysis live in Germany, 30,000 in Japan, 24,000 in France, 16,000 in Australia, 12,000 in Canada and 12,000 in the United Kingdom.
The ` poleis' were not like other primordial ancient city-states like Tyre or Sidon, which were ruled by a king or a small oligarchy, but rather a political entity ruled by its body of citizens.
The traditional view of archaeologists, that the appearance of urbanization at excavation sites could be read as a sufficient index for the development of a ` polis' was criticised by François Polignac in 1984Polignac, ` La naissance de la cité grecque' -LRB- Paris 1984 -RRB-.
The ancient Greeks did n't refer to Athens, Sparta, Thebes and other ` poleis' as such ; they rather spoke of the Athenians, Lacedaemonians, Thebans and so on.
The body of citizens came to be the most important meaning of the term ` polis' in ancient Greece.
The most intense open warfare in the conflict in Western Sahara occurred during the Cold War.
This was mainly because both sides tried to avoid overt involvement, which would necessitate a crash in relations with either Morocco or Algeria - the major North African players - and because neither viewed it as an important front.
They were first used in the conflict against Ukraine around Lwów in 1918 -LRB- the first combat flight of the Polish aircraft on 5 November 1918 -RRB-, and other actions included the bombing of an airfield in Frankfurt -LRB- Oder -RRB- on 9 January 1919 by airmen of the Great Polish Army.
As a result, in 1920-1922, the Polish Air Force consisted of a variety of British, French, German, Austrian and Italian aircraft of the World War I era.
The main fighters used were -LRB- in order of quantity -RRB- : Ansaldo Balilla -LRB- 92 -RRB-, SPAD XIII -LRB- 55 -RRB-, Fokker D.VII -LRB- 50 -RRB-, Oeffag D.III -LRB- 45 -RRB-, SPAD VII -LRB- 19 -RRB-, Albatros D.III -LRB- 12 -RRB-, Sopwith Dolphin -LRB- 10 -RRB-, Fokker E.V -LRB- D.VIII -RRB- -LRB- 8 -RRB-. Many others existed in smaller numbers.
The most numerous fighter became two-seater Bristol F2B Fighter -LRB- 107 units -RRB-, used as a scout and ground attack plane.
During the 1950s-1970s, the Polish wedding was often an all-day event.
A polka band of drums, a singer, accordion, and trumpet, entertained the people, as they danced traditional dances, such as the oberek, `` Polish Hop '' and the waltz.
Foods, such as Polish sausage, sauerkraut, pierogi and kluski were common.
For unknown reasons, the important industrial center of Łódź, located just a few kilometers east of the route, was not included in it.
As a result, a huge nexus was built in Zduńska Wola-Karsznice, which until today is one of the most important junctions of the whole country.
Also, a new settlement was built there, with several condominiums for rail workers and their families.
Apart from the line itself, numerous stations along the way were built.
Before World War II there was a myriad of various Polish organizations.
When PZKO organization was founded, in 1947, creating of other Polish organizations was prohibited.Zahradnik 1992, 128.
PZKO gained monopolist position, and was responsible for all activities related to the Poles, as other Polish organizations had been banned.
After the Velvet Revolution, in 1990, PZKO exonerated people discriminated after 1968, including most noted personalities : Jan Rusnok, Henryk Jasiczek, Adam Wiesław Berger, Tadeusz Siwek and Ernest Sembol.Stopa 2006, 73.
Polish Jacobins slowly became absorbed into other groups of the Great Emigration, although traces of their ideas were visible not only in the January Uprising but also in the Józef Piłsudski 's Polish Socialist Party -LRB- ` Polska Partia Socjalistyczna' -RRB-.
The base idea of the law was to put as many as possible violations against German occupation under penalty.
Prison as punishment was considered unsuitable and death sentence and whipping preferred in designed projects of the law.
The new law gave almost unlimited right to pass death sentences against Poles and imprisonment in concentration camps.
As one of the very few units in the Polish standing army -LRB- most of other units were formed as ` levée en masse' -RRB-, the hussars were well-trained and well-equipped.
Although by the 18th century their importance was diminished by the introduction of modern infantry firearms and quick-firing artillery, the Polish hussars' tactics and armament remained almost unchanged.
Rejewski and his two cryptologist colleagues also invented the cryptological bomb, perforated Zygalski sheets, and other techniques and devices for breaking Enigma ciphers.
Subsequently the design was copied by the British and used in most tanks of WW II, including the Soviet ` T-34', the British Crusader, Churchill, Valentine and Cromwell tanks, and the American M4 Sherman.
VIS -LRB- Polish designation pistolet wz. 35 Vis, German designation 9 mm Pistole 35 -LRB- p -RRB-, often simply called the Radom in English sources -RRB- is a 9 mm caliber, single-action, semi-automatic pistol.
It was to have become the standard SMG of the Polish Army some time in the 1940s.
Thanks to the laminar-flow wing it was one of the most modern bombers in the world before World War II. \ n7TP was the Polish light tank of the Second World War.
A development of the British Vickers 6-ton, it was significantly better armed than its most common opponents, the German Panzer I and Panzer II.
Samochód pancerny wz. 29 -LRB- `` armoured car 1929 pattern '' -RRB-, commonly known as Ursus or CWS, it was a Polish interwar heavy armored car.
Finally, during the Warsaw Uprising Polish engineers built several armoured car which also took part in the fighting.
During the Warsaw Uprising -LRB- August -- October 1944 -RRB-, people in Polish-controlled territory endeavored to recreate the former day-to-day life of their free country.
The 10th Underground Tournament of Poetry was held during the Uprising, with prizes being weaponry -LRB- most of the Polish poets of the younger generation were also members of the resistance -RRB-.
Headed by Antoni Bohdziewicz, the Home Army 's Bureau of Information and Propaganda even created three newsreels and over of film documenting the struggle.Eugeniusz Lokajski took some 1,000 photographs before he died ;, Muzeum Powstania Warszawskiego, 08.12.2003 Sylwester Braun some 3,000, of which 1,500 survive ;, In : Reportaże z Powstania Warszawskiego -LRB- Warsaw Uprising Reportages -RRB-, KAW, Warsaw, 1983.
Jerzy Tomaszewski some 1,000, of which 600 survived.Janina Struk, '', The Guardian, Thursday 28 July 2005.
The use of the term kompot or compote refers euphemistically to a traditional type of dessert popular in Central and Eastern European countries made of stewed fruit, spices, and sugar.
This drug was also considered by Eastern Bloc addicts to be one of last resort when heroin, morphine, or other similar drugs were unavailable, which they often were during the 1950s through the end of the Soviet era.
Illicit drug trafficking within the communist-governed nations of Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, Russia itself, and others was on a much smaller scale and the supply far more erratic and unreliable compared to that of Western nations.
Opium poppies, by contrast, were widely available and relatively cheap.
The most known person who did n't resign was newly elected president -LRB- = mayor -RRB- of Warsaw, Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz.
The primary language of the Polish population in Zaolzie is the Cieszyn Silesian dialect, with the vast majority of Poles using it in everyday communication.
The dialect is very prestigious and contributes to the pride of local people.European Commission 2006.
It is also used by some local Czechs.
In the Zaolzie region, a few church services are conducted in Polish. 90 % of worshippers among Polish secondary school students are reported to pray in Polish.
The partners may choose to retain their surnames, or both adopt the surname before marriage of either partner, or a combination of both ; the children must receive either the joint surname or the surname of one of the partners, if they are different.
However, a married woman usually adopts her husband 's name and the children usually bear the surname of the father.
The wife may keep her maiden name -LRB- ` nazwisko panieńskie' -RRB- or add her husband 's surname to hers, thus creating a double-barrelled name -LRB- ` nazwisko złożone' -RRB-.
They are small rabbits with short ears that touch each other all the way to the tips.
Due to their small size, the Polish rabbit is often confused with the Netherland dwarf, although the Polish is a little larger and the head is not rounded.
The ideal weight is 6 pounds.
As a result, in the eastern territories a Polish -LRB- or Polonized -RRB- aristocracy dominated a peasantry whose great majority was neither Polish nor Roman Catholic.
Moreover, the decades of peace brought huge colonization efforts to Ukraine, heightening the tensions among nobles, Jews, Cossacks -LRB- traditionally Orthodox -RRB-, Polish and Ruthenian peasants.
The choice of other members of this Commission was not random, it contained wealthy king supporters, like the merchant and owner of a merchant fleet from Danzig, Georg Hewel -LRB- Gdańsk, Jerzy Hewel -RRB-.
Because the Sejm -LRB- Polish Diet -RRB- was at best reluctant to pay for new ships and royal chest was permanently empty it was due to Hewel that the new fleet was created at all.
He gave to the king 's disposal 10 ships, a few of them were carrying small caliber cannons.
Additionally the king wanted to build a few Galleons in Danzig and Puck and because of long construction times, also to purchase a few ships abroad, but those plans were not realized -LRB- except of purchase of one Danish ship - requiring quite serious repair -RRB-.
Polish and Lithuanian historians have to yet reach an agreement on the number of victims.
Rimas Bružas, ` R.Bružas : Mano tikslas buvo sukelti istoriku diskusiją' -LRB- R.Bružas : My aim was to initiate a discussion of historians -RRB-, ELTA, 14 March 2005 State commission was established by the Government of Lithuania to evaluate activities of Armia Krajowa in Lithuania which had to present conclusions by 1 December 1993.
Government of the Republic of Lithuania. '' -LRB- Decision to establish commission for evaluating Armia Krajowa activities in Lithuania -RRB-, No. 526p, 14 July 1993 Not a single member of Armia Krajowa, many veterans of which live in Lithuania, has been charged with any crimes as of 2001.
A Lithuanian historian Arunas Bubnys stated that there were no mass murders carried by AK -LRB- with the only exception being Dubingai -RRB-, but that AK was guilty of some war crimes against individuals or selected families ; he also notes that any accusations of genocide are false and have an underlying political motive, among them a counteraction to the accusations of widespread German -- Lithuanian collaboration and crimes committed by units such as the Lithuanian Secret Police -LRB- see also Holocaust in Lithuania -RRB-.
Muscovy troops were fighting with Polish troops, then-Polish Ukraine was bolstered by Cossacks and Koniecpolski 's troops and besides, many times Tatars themselves offered to Commonwealth to raid Muscovy in exchange for `` gifts '' -LRB- or were sent `` gifts '' to do so -RRB-.
About 20,000 strong Tatar army attacked Muscovy in 1632, probably stronger in 1633, attacks continued in 1634 -LRB- till 1637 -RRB-. In June 1634 Tatars operated in area of Kursk, Orel ; and Mtsensk.
Russian historians accuse Poles that they coordinated their attacks with those of Tatars.
France, continuing its policy of countering Bolshevism now that the Whites in Russia proper had been almost completely defeated, sent a 400-strong advisory group to Poland 's aid in 1919.
It consisted mostly of French officers, although it also included a few British advisers led by Lieutenant General Sir Adrian Carton De Wiart.
In addition to the Allied advisors, France also facilitated the transit to Poland from France of the `` Blue Army '' in 1919 : troops mostly of Polish origin, plus some international volunteers, formerly under French command in World War I. The army was commanded by the Polish general, Józef Haller.
Hungary offered to send a 30,000 cavalry corps to Poland 's aid, but the Czechoslovakian government refused to allow them through as there was a demilitarized zone on the borders after the Czech-Hungarian war which ended only a few months before ; some trains with weapon supplies from Hungary did, however, arrive in Poland.
The actual size of the Politburo varied, but it usually consisted of fourteen full and eight candidate members.
Although it had no formal head, the General Secretary of the Party, who was also often head of the Central Committee, always played the leading role.
In practice the most powerful Politburo members also had membership of the Secretariat of the CPSU Central Committee, the General Secretary leading of this group.
Only a few women ever became members of the Politburo.
The video was posted on the popular video-sharing site YouTube.
In addition, the defeat of Senator Allen was enough to give senate democrats a one-vote senate majority when the 110th Congressional term began.
Campaigns are usually overseen by a campaign manager.
In small local campaigns, the campaign manager will often be the only paid staff member and will be responsible for every aspect of the campaign that is not covered by the candidate or volunteers.
While campaign managers are often the lead strategists in local campaigns, in the United States larger campaigns hire consultants to serve as strategists and the campaign manager focuses mostly on coordinating the campaign staff.
Campaign managers will often have deputies who oversee various aspects of the campaign at a closer level.
In a politically charged sense, becoming `` politically conscious '' is often meant to connote that people have awakened to their ` true' political role, their ` actual' identity.
These uses of political consciousness are often politically charged.
There are thirty-nine independent cities in Virginia and other independent cities that are not part of, or consolidated with, counties include Baltimore, Maryland, St. Louis, Missouri, and Carson City, Nevada.
Counties can include a number of cities, towns, villages, or hamlets, or sometimes just a part of a city.
This proved to be an effective public-relations measure, helping to unite the still deeply scarred region with the rest of the country against a common enemy.
Fitzhugh Lee, a former Confederate major general, nephew of Robert E. Lee and postwar Governor of Virginia, who served as the military governor of Havana, and who continued to serve in the army after the war.
Matthew Butler, a former Confederate major general and postwar Senator from South Carolina, was also appointed Major General of Volunteers in the US Army before the military expedition to Cuba.
This throws up an anomaly : Groups get money and seats on Committees which Independent members do not get, but the total amount of Independent members may be greater than the members of the smaller Groups.
In 1979 MEPs got round this by forming a Technical Group -LRB- formally called the `` Group for the Technical Coordination and Defence of Independent Groups and Members '', or `` CDI '' for short -RRB- as a coalition of parties ranging from centre-left to far left, which were not aligned with any of the major international organizations.
On 20 July 1999, another Technical Group was formed, -LRB- formally called the `` Technical Group of Independent Members -- mixed group '' or `` TGI '' for short -RRB-.
Since it contained far-right MEPs and centre-left MEPs, it could not possibly be depicted as having a common outlook.
During the reign of Bukka Raya I, the island of Lanka paid tributes and ambassadors were exchanged with the Ming Dynasty of China.Sastri -LRB- 1955 -RRB-, p241Chopra -LRB- 2003 -RRB-, p28, part2Indicated by records of the Ming dynasty -LRB- Kamath 2001, p162 -RRB- The empire 's most famous rulers were Deva Raya II and the Tuluva king Krishnadevaraya.
Deva Raya II -LRB- known as ` Gajabetekara' or hunter of elephants -RRB- ascended the throne in 1424 and was the most effective of the Sangama dynasty rulers.Sastri -LRB- 1955 -RRB-, p244Chopra -LRB- 2003 -RRB-, p32, part2 He quelled rebelling feudal lords, the Zamorin of Calicut and the Quilon in the south, and invaded the island of Lanka while becoming overlord of the kings of Burma at Pegu and Tanasserim.Chopra -LRB- 2003 -RRB-, p32, part2 ; From the notes of Persian Abdur Razzak.
Telugu attained its height in popularity and reached its peak under Krishnadevaraya.Chopra -LRB- 2003 -RRB-, pp171-173, part2 ; Kamath -LRB- 2001 -RRB-, pp181 -- 182 The Kannada Haridasa movement contributed greatly to Carnatic music and fostered a strong Hindu sentiment across South India.Owing to his contributions to carnatic music, Purandaradasa is known as ` Karnataka Sangita Pitamaha'.
With the defeat of the Vijayanagara Empire in the Battle of Talikota in 1565 by the Deccan sultanates, the Karnataka region and South India in general became fragmented and subsumed under the rule of various former feudatories of the empire.
Often the political focus of a science fiction novel is less on the social order, but how people maneuver and achieve their agendas within a given system.
The Retief stories by Keith Laumer and the Chanur books by C. J. Cherryh have politics and political maneuverings as some of the main themes, and Frank Herbert 's Dune books offer advanced explorations of human politics, including the dovetailing economics.
A story will posit some new event or technology and explore its political dimensions ; this includes most techno-thrillers but also encompasses a large body of traditional science fiction.
In the former Central India Agency, whose princely states had initially been merged into a princely union called Vindhya Pradesh, the rivalry between two groups of states became so bad that the Government of India persuaded the rulers to sign a Merger Agreement abrogating the old Covenants of Merger, and took direct control of the state as a Chief Commissioner 's State.
In December 1947, Menon suggested requiring the rulers of states to take `` practical steps towards the establishment of popular government ''.
This meant that their powers were ` de facto' no different from those of the Governors of the former British provinces, thus giving the people of their territories the same measure of responsible government as the people of the rest of India.
The New Deal allowed machines to recruit for the WPA and Civilian Conservation Corps -LRB- CCC -RRB-, making Farley 's machine the most powerful, all patronage was screened through Farley including Presidential appointments.
In the 1940s most of the big city machines collapsed, with the notable exception of the Chicago machine.
A local political machine in Tennessee was forcibly removed in what was known as the Battle of Athens.
He supports adoption of the National Academy of Science 's recommendations for measuring poverty, which he claims would add 1 million people to the `` poverty '' class.
Edwards argues in favor of creating one million housing vouchers over five years in order to place poor people in middle class neighborhoods and in areas where jobs are available.
JohnEdwards.com Edwards has stated, `` If we truly believe that we are all equal, then we should live together too. ''.
Huckabee disagrees with aspects of John McCain/Ted Kennedy immigration reform but in a May 16, 2006 Washington Post interview he agreed with George W. Bush 's immigration plan, saying : `` I tend to think that the rational approach is to find a way to give people a pathway to citizenship.
But by the same token, I think it 's a little disingenuous when I hear people say they should experience the full weight of the law in every respect with no pathway, because that 's not something we practice in any other area of criminal justice in this country ....
To think that we 're going to go lock up 12 million people, or even round them up and drive them to the border and let them go, might make a great political speech, but it 's not going to happen.
What should happen, however, is exactly what I think -LSB- George W. Bush -RSB- has proposed, and that is that we create a process where people make restitution for the fact they have broken the law. ''.
America 's quarrel was never with the Russian people, it was with the Bolsheviks who terrorized Russia and said to Americans when I was young, ` We will bury you !' ''.
In Buchanan 's view, both Russia and the United States have a vital interest in resisting Islamic terrorism and the possibility of Chinese expansionism, and that `` Of this generation of leaders, it may be said in epitaph : They were too small to see the larger world.
They frittered away in a decade what others had won in a half-century of perseverance in the Cold War. ''.
Foucault once characterized power as `` an action over actions '' -LRB- ` une action sur des actions' -RRB-, arguing that power was essentially' a relation' between several dots, in continuous transformation as in Friedrich Nietzsche 's philosophy.
Jürgen Habermas opposed himself to Foucault 's conception of discourse as a battlefield for power relations, arguing that it should be possible to achieve consensus on the fundamentals rules of discourse, in order to establish a transparent and democratic dialogue.
The allocation of authority between the sub-unit and centre may vary.
Typically the centre has powers regarding defence and foreign policy, but sub-units may also have international roles.
The sub-units may also participate in central decision-making bodies.
Political gatherings may supplement or replace religious ceremonies to help reinforce loyalty.
The state usually controls the mass media for similar reasons, filling it with propaganda.
Political religions that do not have such a level of mandated control may, instead, use commercial means to influence editorial and programming decisions.
Lowell Jensen -LRB- R -RRB- - As Deputy Attorney General, under Edwin Meese, he approved all matters regarding Inslaw 's Promis contracts with the Department of Justice though it was known that Jensen had competed with similar software known as Dalite during the mid-1970s against Inslaw for a California LEAA contract.
Hamilton Jordan -LRB- D -RRB- Jimmy Carter 's advisor who became target of repeated rumors of coarse and even criminal behavior, but extensive legal investigations failed to substantiate any of them. -LRB- 1979 -RRB-.
` Democratic Party 2008 Platform ` We believe that the people of Puerto Rico have the right to the political status of their choice, obtained through a fair, neutral, and democratic process of self-determination.
The White House and Congress will work with all groups in Puerto Rico to enable the question of Puerto Rico 's status to be resolved during the next four years.
We also believe that economic conditions in Puerto Rico call for effective and equitable programs to maximize job creation and financial investment.
We will phase-out the cap on Medicaid funding and phase-in equal participation in other federal health care assistance programs.
The `` mechanics '' of Political verse is rather straightforward : the verse has a more or less strict form and deviations from it are usually incidental, or the exception than the rule.The structure of each verse follows closely that convention : in the first part of each verse -LRB- the first eight syllables -RRB- the main theme of the verse is introduced, in the `` main clause '' of the verse.
Either by been explained, or completed, or supplemented, or quite often the theme of the main clause is amplified by been repeated or restated in other words.
Political verses are usually, but not exclusively, organized in pairs -LRB- thus forming `` stanzas '' of two lines, known as distichs or couplets -RRB-.
He criticized the British during World War II, saying that while Britain was allegedly fighting for the freedom of the European nations under Nazi control, it would not grant independence to its own colonies, including India.
In 1937 he published an article attacking Japanese Imperialism in the Far East, although he betrayed some admiration for other aspects of the Japanese regime.
He would later start his own radio program The Radio Factor a few years later.
O'Reilly has also written several non-fiction books detailing some of his beliefs.
From September 24 1993 through October 7 2004, Norodom Sihanouk reigned as King, after having previously served in a number of offices -LRB- including King -RRB- since 1941.
Under the Constitution, the King has no political power, but as Norodom Sihanouk was revered in the country, his word often carried much influence in the government.
The King, often irritated over the conflicts in his government, several times threatened to abdicate unless the political factions in the government got along.
This influence of the King was often used to help mediate differences in government.
Western alienation is another national-unity-related concept that enters into Canadian politics.
Residents of the four western provinces, particularly Alberta, have often been unhappy with a lack of influence and a perceived lack of understanding when residents of Central Canada consider `` national '' issues.
While this is seen to play itself out through many avenues -LRB- media, commerce, etc. -RRB-, in politics, it has given rise to a number of political parties whose base constituency is in western Canada.
These include the United Farmers of Alberta, who first won federal seats in 1917, the Progressives -LRB- 1921 -RRB-, the Social Credit Party -LRB- 1935 -RRB-, the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation -LRB- 1935 -RRB-, the Reconstruction Party -LRB- 1935 -RRB-, New Democracy -LRB- 1940 -RRB- and most recently the Reform Party -LRB- 1989 -RRB-.
Laurent Gbagbo took power following a popular overthrow of the interim leader Gen. Robert Guéi who had claimed a dubious victory in presidential elections ; Gen. Guéi himself had assumed power on 25 December 1999, following a military coup against the government of former President Henri Konan Bédié.
The president is elected by popular vote for a five-year term ; election last held 26 October 2000.
The prime minister is usually appointed by the president.
This was held in September that year, and saw Mara 's Alliance Party returned with a record majority of 36 parliamentary seats out of 52.
The majority of the Alliance Party was reduced in the election of 1982, but with 28 seats out of 52, Mara retained power.
The parliament has, since equal and common suffrage was introduced in 1906, been dominated by secular Conservatives, the Centre Party -LRB- former Agrarian Union -RRB-, and Social Democrats.
Nevertheless, none of these has held a single-party majority, with the notable exception of 1916 elections where Social Democrats gained 103 of the 200 seats.
After 1944 Communists were a factor to consider for a few decades, and the Finnish People 's Democratic League, formed by Communists and others to the left of Social Democrats, even was the largest party after 1958 elections.
In September 2008, Rowling donated L1 million to the Labour Party, saying, `` I believe that poor and vulnerable families will fare much better under the Labour Party than they would under a Cameron-led Conservative Party.
Gordon Brown has consistently prioritised and introduced measures that will save as many children as possible from a life lacking in opportunity or choice.
David Cameron 's promise of tax perks for the married, on the other hand, is reminiscent of the Conservative government I experienced as a lone parent.
It sends the message that the Conservatives still believe a childless, dual-income, but married couple is more deserving of a financial pat on the head than those struggling, as I once was, to keep their families afloat in difficult times. ''.
India has a multi-party system, where there are a number of national as well as regional parties.
A regional party may gain a majority and rule a particular state.
If a party represents more than 4 states then such parties are considered as national parties.
The party enjoyed a parliamentary majority barring two brief periods during the 1970s and late 1980s.
A referendum must then be held within three months, which requires a simple majority in favour to pass.
In the event of competing proposals, the multiple proposals are put to a ballot and the proposal with the most supporters is put to the referendum.
In the event of an affirmative referendum a Transitional Legislative Assembly is elected for one year, which has the task of writing a constitution for the Region, which is then put to a referendum requiring a simple majority to pass.
The President, Prime Minister and Ministers of the region are elected by simple majority, in contrast to the Iraqi Council of Representatives which requires two thirds support.
Khuzestan has been a focus of criticism by human rights groups.
While Khuzestan is not unique in terms of its human rights record, Amnesty notes that often these abuses are related to institutional discrimination.
In its report entitled ` New government fails to address dire human rights situation' published in February 2006, Amnesty states : : ` Even where the majority of the local population is Arab, schools are reportedly not allowed to teach through the medium of Arabic ; illiteracy rates are reportedly high, especially among Iranian Arab women in rural areas ... land expropriation by the Iranian authorities is reportedly so widespread that it appears to amount to a policy aimed at dispossessing Arabs of their traditional lands.
In December 2001, a presidential election was held in which both major candidates claimed victory.
Marc Ravalomanana contested the results and claimed victory.
A political crisis followed in which Ratsiraka supporters cut major transport routes from the primary port city to the capital city, a stronghold of Ravalomanana support.
In the third FRELIMO party congress in 1983, President Samora Machel conceded the failure of socialism and the need for major political and economic reforms.
Since the advent of legal party politics after the 1990 Jana Andolan, all three streams have gone through various processes of divisions and mergers. \ n ` Congress' : The Nepali Congress is a centrist `` socialist '' party, comprising of leaders who have worked for restoration of democracy.
CPN -LRB- UML -RRB- became a major parliamentary force.
Today, in between CPN -LRB- UML -RRB- and CPN -LRB- Maoist -RRB- are various smaller communist groups, out of whom five have parliamentary representation. \ n ` Royalists' : When multi-party politics began, elements of the previous regime formed the Rashtriya Prajatantra Party.
The RPP became the third force in parliamentary politics during the 1990s, and an important partner in various governing coalitions, it was ridden by divisions.
Chomsky is deeply critical of what he calls the `` corporate state capitalism '' that he believes is practiced by the United States and other western states.
In a speech given in Hanoi on April 13, 1970, and broadcast by Radio Hanoi the next day, Chomsky spoke of his `` admiration for the people of Vietnam who have been able to defend themselves against the ferocious attack, and at the same time take great strides forward toward the socialist society. ''.
The new minority government managed to secure itself a majority in a by-election and was dominated overwhelmingly by the always-smiling self confessed `` media tart '' Peter Beattie.
A major controversy broke in 2001 on the eve of the election, when a number of very prominent Labor Party figures were implicated in rorting internal preselection and party ballots.
In response to calls by the Central Asian and other union republics for admission, another meeting was held in Alma-Ata, on 21 December, to form an expanded CIS.
Russia gained international recognition as the principal successor to the Soviet Union, receiving the Soviet Union 's permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council and positions in other international and regional organizations.
The prime minister is appointed from the representatives by the governor general, who has a constitutional duty to select someone who is likely to command the support of the majority of the representatives.
In practice this would normally mean the leader of the majority party or coalition.
The prime minister can be removed from office by the assembly, or by the governor general if he feels that the prime minister no longer enjoys the support of the majority of representatives.
The assembly is elected every five years unless the governor general dissolves it before the end of this period, which he may do on the advice of the prime minister.
The president of the republic is elected to a 5-year term by direct universal suffrage and a secret ballot, and may hold up to two consecutive terms.
Candidates are chosen at their party 's national conference -LRB- or individuals may run independently -RRB-.
A presidential candidate must obtain an outright majority of the popular vote in either a first or second round of voting in order to be elected president.
The prime minister is named by the president but must be ratified by the majority party and thus normally comes from a list of its choosing.
Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali, has consistently expressed his opposition to the presence of religious parties in parliament, and the Tunisian constitution clearly forbids the inclusion of religious parties in the political system.
While Tunisia can not boast the natural resources its neighbors have, standards of living are among the best in the developing world.
This can be evidenced by two compelling economic observations : the level to which Tunisia has become self-sufficient in material goods, and the extent of real estate development in the cities and major towns of the country.
As to the rise of the building and construction industry, a fleeting visit to any of Tunisia 's smaller towns -LRB- let alone the cities -RRB- will confirm that development is rampant : many projects, especially hotels, are newly opened, and many more stand as skeleton buildings, ready to be developed as soon as demand - and capital funds - are available to bring them to completion.
Until 1966, Dutch politics were characterised by pillarisation : society was separated in several segments -LRB- pillars -RRB- which lived separate from each other and there was only contact at the top levels, in government.
These pillars had their own organisations, most importantly the political parties.
There were four pillars, which provided the five most important parties, the socialist Labour Party -LRB- Partij van de Arbeid ; PvdA -RRB-, the conservative-liberal People 's Party for Freedom and Democracy -LRB- Volkspartij voor Vrijheid en Democratie ; VVD -RRB-, the Catholic Catholic People 's Party -LRB- Katholieke Volkspartij ; KVP -RRB- and the two conservative-Protestant parties, the Christian Historical Union -LRB- Chirstelijk Historische Unie ; CHU -RRB- and the Anti Revolutionary Party -LRB- Anti-Revolutionaire Party ; ARP -RRB-.
Since no party ever gained an absolute majority, these political parties had to work together in coalition governments.
Before market reforms, many of these were workers, soldiers, and prisoners assigned compulsorily to settle in those regions, carried out by organizations like the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps.
Finally, cadres and professionals have also been enticed with financial incentives, though demographically speaking this category is comparatively insignificant numbering in the thousands the cadres involved are posted for a few years before being replaced and such programs are focused upon the entire impoverished western half of China, not just Xinjiang and Tibet.
Independence groups consider practices such these to be chauvinistic and colonialistic, aimed at homogenising the demographics of non-Han Chinese areas and reducing the possibility that any independence movement could succeed.
Taiwan 's sovereignty belongs to the 23 million people of Taiwan.
Only the 23 million people of Taiwan may decide on the future of Taiwan ''.
It is also a common position shared by both the ruling and opposition parties in Taiwan.
A recent opinion poll shows that more than 90 % of the people of Taiwan agree with this position. ''.
The Government of the United Kingdom contains a number of ministries known mainly, though not exclusively as departments, e.g. Ministry of Defence.
These are politically led by a Government Minister who is often a Secretary of State and member of the Cabinet.
He or she may also be supported by a number of junior Ministers.
In practice, several government departments and Ministers have responsibilities that cover England alone, with devolved bodies having responsibility for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, -LRB- for example - the Department of Health -RRB-, or responsibilities that mainly focus on England -LRB- such as the Department for Children, Schools and Families -RRB-.
In its mended, yellow and multi-coloured polka-dot muumuu, the creature spoke using various repeated exclamations of its own named accompanied by elaborate gestures.
This was usually followed by a song whose lyrics began `` Imagine, imagine, you can imagine Polkaroo ... ''.
Polkaroo appeared only to the female host while the male host was absent for some reason.
German-American bands resist being termed `` polka bands '' because they perform not only polkas but also waltzes, schottisches, laendlers, and various other ethnic forms of musicLeary, James, ` Review : Czech - and German-American `` Polka '' Music', The Journal of American Folklore 101.401 -LRB- 1988 -RRB- : 339-345.
The German-American sound is often described with the term `` oom-pa-pa '' and is characterized by an emphasis on brass -LRB- especially the tuba -RRB-, accompanied by drums and reed instruments -LRB- including the accordion or concertina -RRB-.
He later added more popular music to his band 's repertoire, which enabled him to spread the polka throughout America by way of his famous television show.
This may be because of lack of attractiveness of the blossoms, or from trying to pollinate with an alternative when the native pollinator is extinct or rare.
This technique is known as saturation pollination.
In many such cases, various native bees are vastly more efficient at pollination -LRB- e.g., with blueberriesJavorek SK, Mackenzie KE, Vander Kloet SP -LRB- 2002 -RRB- Comparative pollination effectiveness among bees -LRB- Hymenoptera : Apoidea -RRB- on Lowbush Blueberry -LRB- Ericaceae : ` Vaccinium angustifolium' -RRB-.
In a very few cases, it has been possible to develop commercially viable pollination techniques that use the more efficient pollinators, rather than continued reliance on honey bees, as in the management of the alfalfa leafcutter bee.
Pollinators fluctuate in abundance and activity independently of their plants, Ollerton, J., Killick, A., Lamborn, E., Watts, S. & Whiston, M. -LRB- 2007 -RRB- Multiple meanings and modes : on the many ways to be a generalist flower.
Taxon 56 : 717-728 and any one species may fail to pollinate a plant in a particular year.
Thus a plant may be at an advantage if it attracts several species or types of pollinators, ensuring pollen transfer every year.
Plants do, in many species, have the back-up option of self-pollination, if they are not self-incompatible.
Should the oil and fuel escape from their caves, the Ministry of Environment deems it probable that the underground freshwater lens would be contaminated and undrinkable.
The destruction of the two West-End lenses would cut the supplemental pumped supply by 2/5, creating catastrophic water shortages in the summer months, and forcing both severe water conservation programs and investment in another source of fresh water to meet the highly inelastic demand.
The only foreseen alternative is a desalination or reverse osmosis plant, the most efficient of which can provide fresh water at $ 2000 per acre foot -LRB- $ 1.60 / kL -RRB-.
In 1999 he made a film, ` Srre Sttergae' -LRB- red eyes -RRB- and through this film he proved that still there is a great potential in Pashto films as the story for the first time after many years was quite different and the cast, especially the heroine -LRB- s -RRB- were new and seemed that after a great hard work the film was completed.
A few months back, another Pashto film, ` Qalam au Kalashnikov', written by Faiz Mohammad released.
No matter how the wrap is applied, the tension in the wrap should be as uniform as possible across the entire leg.
Uneven pressure may cause damage to tendons.
Additionally, the pressure on one leg should be comparable to the pressure on leg on the other side ; otherwise gait abnormalities may result.
Acrylic paint essentially consists of PMMA suspended in water ; however since PMMA is hydrophobic, a substance with both hydrophobic and hydrophilic groups needs to be added to facilitate the suspension.
Modern furniture makers, especially in the 1960s and 1970s, seeking to give their products a space age aesthetic, incorporated Lucite and other PMMA products into their designs, especially office chairs.
From approximately the 1960s onward, sculptors and glass artists began using acrylics, especially taking advantage of the material 's flexibility, light weight, cost and its capacity to refract and filter light.
There are no less than five Byzantine abridgments of this work, the most important in the same library of the original, the Laurentian.
This compendium, titled Y?o ?????? ?? ??? ??????????? ???????, contains fifty-eight chapters and three hundred fifty-four stratagems and is useful to elucidate and explain many passages of the original, lost or not.
Despite the existence of the abridgements, Polyaenus' treatise was not popular in the Middle Ages.
To this it must be added that only the Y?o ?????? derives directly from the original, while the other four versions seem to be summaries of the first.
Another is the image of a parrot, since `` Polly '' is a common name for these birds.PolyOz states in its that `` The parrot is a common poly `` mascot '' or symbol.
Punning on ` poly wan na X' ''. PolyOz states in its that `` The parrot is a common poly `` mascot '' or symbol.
A 2003 in ` The Guardian' states `` Today America has more than 100 poly email lists and support groups.
A 2003 in ` The Guardian' states `` Today America has more than 100 poly email lists and support groups.
Polyandry in primates and other mammals is usually correlated with reduced or reverse sexual dimorphism - females larger than males.
When males of a species are much larger than females, polygyny is usually practiced.
As size difference decreases, or the females are larger than males, a species is more likely to practice monogamy or polyandry.
Human males and females are less dismorphic in body size than other polygynous great apes.
There is usually a well-developed, if simple, circulatory system.
In a few cases, however, muscular pumps analogous to a heart are found in various parts of the system.
Although the lizards are small, their territories are usually quite big : around three square yards, females' usually smaller.
Their territories often contain a basking area, a shady area, a high lookout, and always a place to hide from predators.
They do not take kindly to other anoles in their territory.
If this does not scare off the intruder, a fight proceeds in which the two anoles bite at each other 's necks.
But in the largest trial to date, comparing clomiphene with metformin, clomiphene alone was the most effective.
In this trial, 626 women were randomized to three groups : metformin alone, clomiphene alone, or both.
The live-birth rates following 6 months of treatment were 7.2 % -LRB- metformin -RRB-, 22.5 % -LRB- clomiphene -RRB-, and 26.8 % -LRB- both -RRB-. The major complication of clomiphene was multiple pregnancy, affecting 0 %, 6 % and 3.1 % of women respectively.
Patients with polycythemia vera may often be asymptomatic.
Physical exam findings are non-specific, but may include enlarged liver or spleen, plethora, or gouty nodules.
The diagnosis is often suspected on the basis of laboratory tests.
Common findings include an elevated hemoglobin level or hematocrit, reflecting the increased number of red blood cells ; the platelet count or white blood cell count may also be increased.
The true polydactyly - commonly called ` mitten foot', ` mitten cat' or ` thumb cat' condition - is a congenital abnormality, genetically inherited as an autosomal dominant trait of the ` Pd gene' with incomplete penetrance.
This type of polydactyly is not life-threatening and usually not even debilitating to a cat.
However in some cases polydactyly appears to improve the dexterity of the animal.
For example, a common variation with six toes on the front paws, with two opposing digits on each -LRB- comparable in use to human thumbs -RRB-, enables the cat to learn and perform feats of manual dexterity generally not observed in non-polydactyl cats, such as opening latches or catching objects with a single paw.
Polyelectrolytes which bear both cationic and anionic repeat groups are called ` polyampholytes'.
The competition between the acid-base equilibria of these groups leads to additional complications in their physical behavior.
These polymers usually only dissolve when there is sufficient added salt, which screens the interactions between oppositely charged segments.
In Sri Lanka, polyandry was practiced -LRB- though not widespread -RRB- till recent times.
When the Buddhist texts were translated into Chinese, the concubines of others were added to the list of inappropriate partners.
In Tibet as well, both polygyny and polyandry were commonly practiced.
Having several wives or several husbands was never regarded as having sex with inappropriate partners.
Part of the difference may be that most polygonal rifling is produced by hammer forging the barrel around a mandrel containing a reverse impression of the rifling.
Hammer forging machines are tremendously expensive, far out of the reach of custom gunsmiths -LRB- unless they buy pre-rifled blanks -RRB-, and so are generally only used for production barrels by large companies.
First applied to gun barrel rifling in Germany in 1939, hammer forging has remained popular in Europe, but was only later used by gunmakers in the United States.
The hammer forging process produces large amounts of stress in the barrel that must be relieved by careful heat treatment, a process that is less necessary in a traditionally cut or button rifled barrel.
In West Africa persons suspected of a crime were made to pass a bird 's egg to one another.
If a person broke the egg, then he or she was considered guilty, based on the idea that their nervousness was to blame.
Because salivation was believed to cease at times of emotional anxiety, the person was considered guilty if by the end of that speech the rice was dry.
A lot of people left the area to live in the mountains.
Many farm workers came from other places of Ottoman empire, in order to work, because many locals refused to work in Ottoman owned farmsIn Greek `` Macedonia : 4.000 years of Greek Civilization '' Sakellariou, 1990In Greek : `` History of Modern Hellenism 1204-1985 '' K. Vakalopoulos, Thessaloniki.
It is remarkable that in the villages Evzoni and Korona, people used to speak a Vlach-Slavic dialect with a great amount of ancient Greek components, called Megleno-Romanian.
Researcher Maria Papageorgiou claims that a lot of plays of ancient Greek tragic poets, not preserved nowadays, were kept verbally, in this dialect, as tales.
A common means of expressing the length of a chain is the degree of polymerization, which quanitifies the number of monomers incorporated into the chainMcCrum, N. G., Buckley, C. P., and Bucknall, C. B., ` Principles of Polymer Engineering', Oxford Science Publications, 1997, p30.Rubinstein, M. and Colby, R., ` Polymer Physics', Oxford University Press, 2006, p3..
As with other molecules, a polymer 's size may also be expressed in terms of molecular weight.
Since synthetic polymerization techniques typically yield a polymer product including a range of molecular weights, the weight is often expressed statistically to describe the distribution of chain lengths present in the same.
The ratio of these two values is the polydispersity index, commonly used to express the `` width '' of the molecular weight distributionPainter P. C. and Coleman M. M., ` Fundamentals of Polymer Science', CRC Press, 1997, p 22..
Most noticeably, the right-hand control panel is absent, while the left-hand panel is sparsely populated by just a few sliders, thus giving the user much less control over the sounds.
Control over these presets is limited to octave balance, envelope attack, and LFO modulation depth and rate -LRB- interestingly, adjustment of these LFO parameters is limited or unavailable on some presets, the factory not wishing the user to make adjustments which would be unrealistic ! -RRB-.
The lower two octaves may also be split off to play a separate bass tone, with some control over this tone allowed via a dedicated ` bass filter'.
Filter control of the main preset sounds is not user adjustable other than via an external controller.
Monomeric polyols such as pentaerythritol, ethylene glycol and glycerin often serve as the starting point for polymeric polyols.
The functional group used as the starting point for a polymeric polyol need not be a hydroxyl group ; there are a number of important polyols which are built up from amines.
A primary amino group -LRB- - NH2 -RRB- often functions as the starting point for two polymeric chains, especially in the case of polyether polyols.
Race ` singalensis', Felder. -- Male Upperside : purplish blue with in certain lights a refulgent silvery iridescence, most conspicuous along the costa of the fore wing, fore and hind wings : a very narrow black edging to the terminal margins narrower on the hind wing than on the fore wing, not dilated towards the apex of the latter.
Fore wing : the postdiscal series of abbreviated lines or elongate spots pale brown, very regular, placed almost end to end, the series slightly curved and not closer lo the termen posteriorly than anteriorly.
Hind wing : the markings pale brown, regular but small, the subbasal transverse series of three spots and the subcostal spot in interspace 7 black, the latter not larger than the others.
Both fore and hind wings : with the spots of the subterminal series very small, mere black dots ; the inner subterminal series of markings lunular and generally somewhat blurred, the posterior lunules on the fore wing distinctly broadened as in the typical form but not so prominently ; finally, the anticiliary black line very slender and clearly defined.
They may have a large flat base -LRB- sessile -RRB- or be attached to the uterus by an elongated pedicle -LRB- pedunculated -RRB-.
Pedunculated polyps are more common that sessile ones.
They range in size from a few millimeters to several centimeters.
Small blood vessels may be present in polyps, particularly large ones.
Because of this, this PPE and the other PPEs do not effectively wet metal surfaces.
As a result, contamination of other components and equipment, which do not require a lubricant, is avoided.
The devices that benefit from the specialized properties of PPEs include cell phones, printers and a variety of other electronic appliances.
Its premiere during the 1951 Donaueschingen Festival caused a scandal, with one half of the audience shouting and imitating animal noises, while the other half responded with applause and bravos.
The above channels formed by polyphosphate and poly-b-hydroxybutyrate with Ca2 + are involved in the transport processes in a variety of organisms.
PAOs accomplish this removal of phosphate by accumulating it within their cells as polyphosphate.PAOs are by no means the only bacteria that can accumulate polyphosphate within their cells and in fact, the production of polyphosphate is a widespread ability among bacteria.
Most other bacteria can not consume under these conditions and therefore PAOs gain a selective advantage within the mixed microbial community present in the activated sludge.
Therefore, wastewater treatment plants that operate for enhanced biological phosphorus removal have an anaerobic tank -LRB- where there is no nitrate or oxygen present as external electron acceptor -RRB- prior to the other tanks to give PAOs preferential access to the simple carbon compounds in the wastewater that is influent to the plant.
Triploidy may be the result of either digyny -LRB- the extra haploid set is from the mother -RRB- or diandry -LRB- the extra haploid set is from the father -RRB-.
Diandry is almost always caused by the fertilization of an egg by two sperm -LRB- dispermy -RRB-.
Digyny is most commonly caused by either failure of one meiotic division during oogenesis leading to a diploid oocyte or failure to extrude one polar body from the oocyte.
However, among early miscarriages, digyny is also more common in those cases 8.5 weeks gestational age or those in which an embryo is present.
Electrical polyspermy blocks operate in many animal species, including frogs, clams, and marine worms, but not in the several mammals that have been studied -LRB- hamster, rabbit, mouse -RRB-.
Academic, New York. pp. 223-250. In species without an electrical block, polyspermy is usually prevented by secretion of materials that establish a mechanical barrier to polyspermy.
In sea urchins, fertilization occurs externally in the ocean, such that hundreds of sperm can encounter the egg within several seconds.
The layer immediately underlying coal seams, often called either `` seatearth or underclay '', typically either consists of or contains a paleosol.
These paleosols are identified on the basis of the presence of structures and microstructures unique to soils ; animal burrows and molds of plant roots of various sizes and types ; recognizable soil profile development ; and alteration of minerals by soil processes.
The Polytechnic Anime Society consists of students who enjoy gaming, ` anime', ` manga', and other aspects of both popular culture and Japanese culture.
Besides hosting weekly anime showings and gaming sessions in the university, PAS also hosts and participates in various outside events.
Members can often be found in costume attending conventions and parades.
Average attendance per year is usually around 200, with tournaments, panels, and anime showings running throughout the day.
Historically folk religion was often suppressed by religious institutions or totalitarian regimes.
When these regimes weaken or dissolve, often the populace will reinstitute their folk traditions, customs and languages as a form of cultural pride or nationalism.
This is most clearly illustrated by the ongoing discrimination against Greeks who practice their indigenous religion.Some right-wing European intellectuals, such as Alain de Benoist in France, have called for a restoration of polytheism in opposition to Christianity, which they see as internationally-minded, inclusive, and decadent.
While mosses are considered non-vascular plants, ` Polytrichum commune' shows clear differentiation of water conducting tissue.
The other tissue is called ` leptom', which surround the hadrom and contains smaller cells.
This tissue is, on the other hand, analogous to phloem.
When these two tissue types are taken into account along with the species' exceptional height, it becomes clear that common haircap moss is quite a unique moss considering that the majority of species show little differentiation of conducting tissue and are restricted to much smaller stem lengths.
The polywell differs from the fusor in that the electrons are magnetically confined, so that it is also related to magnetic confinement fusion, most closely to magnetic mirrors.
In common with magnetic mirrors is the field minimum in the central region, the confinement -LRB- in part -RRB- by the mirror effect, and -LRB- at least to some extent -RRB- a non-thermal distribution of the electron energies.
The magnetic field in such a case is said to have `` good curvature '' because a certain class of fluctuations are stable in a plasma contained by such a field.
Cheerleading pom-pons come in a variety of shapes, styles, colors, color combinations and sizes.
Metallic -LRB- shiny -RRB- poms have become very popular in recent years, as have more cost-effective look-alike poms that are often given to spectators at sporting events.
These spectator poms are often called Rooter or Spirit poms.
They may be anhydrous or emulsified with an aqueous carrier, which makes them easier to remove.
They may also contain perfume and coloring agents.
The stiffest will have a higher proportion of beeswax while the lightest may have a higher proportion of oils.
Balaustines, the red rose-like flowers of the pomegranate, taste bitter and may be used as an astringent in folk medicine.
In 1243, the Bishopric of Pomesania and the other three dioceses -LRB- Bishopric of Samland, Ermland, and Bishopric of Culm -RRB- were put under the jurisdiction of the Archbishop of Riga by papal legate William of Modena.
Pomesanians joined the other Prussian clans during the First Prussian Uprising -LRB- 1242 -- 1249 -RRB-, but was the only clan not to participate in the Great Prussian Uprising -LRB- 1260 -- 1274 -RRB-.
As the westernmost Prussian territory, it was the most exposed clan to German colonists and their culture.
They assimilated and became extinct a bit faster than the other Prussians.
He executed a large number of groups in marble and portrait busts.
For the Arco della Pace -LRB- commemorative arch now in the Parco Sempione -RRB-, completed in 1838, he made various reliefs including of Terpsichore and Venus Urania, and of the rivers Adige and Tagliamento.
Organized outdoor hockey has been played many years before indoor rinks were popularized.
Then a bird came to the stranger and said, that if he were to hit the ball lightly the bird would take the ball across the line -LRB- commonly known as a goal -RRB-.
Shinny was not just a part of Navajo culture it was part of many Indian stories.
Shinny was also used to praise gods, and people would play in honor of a certain god.
Shinny was played by almost all tribes, women were also allowed to play, sometimes they would even play with or against men of the tribe.
Some balls were made from a knot in a tree, some were made of whale bone, others where made of buffalo hair covered with the skin of a buck.
They were usually as big as the land could suffice for, they also corresponded to the number of players.
Bushnell decided to inform each of the two groups that the other was not interested -- Bushnell told the Bally executives that the Midway executives did not want it and vice versa -- to preserve the relationships for future dealings.
Upon hearing this, the two groups declined Bushnell 's offer.
The first arcade cabinets produced were assembled very slowly, about ten machines a day, many of which failed quality testing.
By 1973, they began shipping ` Pong' to other countries with the aid of foreign partners.
The base Model J underwent a number of content changes to cut the base price by around $ 500 to be more competitive with other mid-sized personal luxury cars.
Those changes for the `` J '' included a smaller 350 CID V8 as the base powerplant and some downgrading of interior trim that included a new notchback bench seat made standard equipment and the Strato bucket seats/console moved to the `` option '' list.
Leather interior trim was a new extra-cost option available with the Strato bucket seats and LJ and SJ models.Both the `` LJ '' and `` SJ '' models came standard with a 400 CID V8 that was optional on the Model J. The 455 CID V8 was optional on all models.In celebration of Pontiac 's 50th anniversary in 1976, a number of special edition Grand Prix painted gold were produced.
These models featured removable Hurst T-tops, Rally II wheels and other distinctions but were mechanically similar to the regular models.
There have been some pervasive myths or urban legends regarding the Can Am. It was only available in Cameo White paint, and not any other color from the factory - such as Mandarin Orange or Carousel Red.
This rumor continues, despite the facts being well documented via discussions with Jim Wangers, the motivating force behind Motortown.
Road tests commonly quoted the Can Am as having a Pontiac 400, along with a 2.41 rear gear ratio.
However, one Can Am has been restored and modified with a conversion to a Super T10 manual transmission using all-GM factory parts, from various years of the 73-77 GM A-body.
He marched to the Muskingum River in the Ohio Country, within striking distance of a number of native villages.
Now that treaties had been negotiated at Fort Niagara and Fort Detroit, the Ohio Natives were isolated and, with some exceptions, ready to make peace.
Guyasuta and other leaders reluctantly handed over more than 200 captives, many of whom had been adopted into Native families.
Because not all of the captives were present, the Natives were compelled to surrender hostages as a guarantee that the other captives would be returned.
In the early Church, Mass was normally celebrated by the bishop, with other clergy.
In the Roman Rite this evolved into a form of Solemn High Mass celebrated by a bishop accompanied by a deacon, subdeacon, thurifer, acolyte -LRB- s -RRB- and other ministers, under the guidance of a priest acting as Master of Ceremonies.
Most often the specific parts assigned to deacon and subdeacon are performed by priests.
The parts to be said aloud are all chanted, except that the Prayers at the Foot of the Altar, which before the reform of Pope Pius V were said in the sacristy or during the entrance procession, were said quietly by the bishop with the deacon and the subdeacon, while the choir sang the Introit.
The Johannine narrative describes the porticos as being a place in which large numbers of infirm people were waiting, -LRB- a -RRB- which corresponds well with the site 's first century use as an asclepieion.
Modern textual scholarship views these extra details as unreliable and unlikely to have been part of the original text ; many modern translations do not include the ` troubling of the water' or the ` angel tradition', but leave the earlier numbering system, so that they skip from verse' 3a' straight to verse' 5'. see the New International Version, English Standard Version, Revised Standard Version, and New Living Translation, for example.
As a freshwater reservoir, it would have been a major gathering place for ancient Jews making religious pilgrimages to the city.
Wiegand, ` The Theodosian Monastery', -LRB- 1929 -RRB-, volume 11, page 50-72, and mentioned in Byzantine works such as the 7th century ` Chronicon Paschale' ; other nymphaeum built by Hadrian, such as that at Sagalassos, have a very similar appearancefor example, see.
However most often 19.75 % enrichment is used, falling just under the 20 % level that would make it highly enriched.
Fuel elements may be plates or rods with 8.5 % to 45 % uranium.
Beryllium and graphite blocks or plates may be added to the core as neutron reflectors and neutron absorbing rods pierce the core for control.
General Atomics of La Jolla, CA manufactures TRIGA reactor fuel elements in France for the majority of these types of reactors around the world.
Parkstone Grammar School was the most successful secondary school in Poole for GCSE results in 2007 : 100 % of pupils gained five or more GCSEs at A \ n to C grade including maths and English.
Canford School also achieved 100 % and Poole Grammar School was the next best performing school with 98 %.
Poole 's grammar schools were also the best performing for A-level results.
Poole Grammar School was the 60th most successful school/sixth form in the country in 2007 : each student achieved on average 1071.4 points compared to the national average of 731.2.
Continuing anti-clockwise, now heading south are the majority of the islands within the Harbour as well as several small channels and inlets.
The majority of land in this area is heathland and there are few settlements, as opposed to western part of the Harbour.
Green Island, Furzey Island and Brownsea Island -LRB- in that order -RRB- are to the east, with Newton Bay and Brands Bay -LRB- this area has several oil wells -RRB- to the south.
This area of water is known as the South Deep.
During the period of Jawaharlal Nehru Fellowship he created the first comprehensive 20 volume hydrological atlas of Tamil Nadu State of India including mathematical models, details of hydraulic structures, among others.
He developed also the double bounded probability density function -LRB- Kumaraswamy distribution -RRB-, a probability density function suitable for physical variables that are usually bounded.
He worked also as a design and construction engineer of two major industrial works, namely, the Tiruchirappalli Boiler Plant, and the Tuticorin Harbour Project.
In addition he was involved in the hydraulic design of numerous dams, canals, and other hydraulic structures throughout South India.
Other churches have been founded by or have been associated with some person who was later canonised.
These associations are often celebrated in the decoration of the church, to encourage worshippers to emulate the piety, good works, or steadfast faith of the saint.
Sometimes saints are shown together in a sort of pictorial gallery, but the depiction of narratives is also common.
This may take the form of a single incident, such as Saint Sebastian tied to a tree and bristling with arrows or St Christopher carrying the Christ Child across the river, or the saint 's life may be shown in a narrative sequence, similar to the way in which the life of Jesus is depicted.
The Saturday night primetime show initially followed the audition process, as hopefuls sang before four judges -LRB- record producer and music executive Pete Waterman, music executive and music manager Simon Cowell, music promoter and music manager Nicki Chapman and Radio DJ and television personality Neil `` Dr '' Fox -RRB- at various locations around the UK.
Besides the successful auditionees, the poorest `` singers '' were often aired due to their obvious lack of talent or presence.
Poor singers often faced harsh criticisms from the judges, especially from Simon Cowell -LRB- whose controversial rantings also made him famous on ` American Idol' -RRB-.
The judges' reactions to such performances often ranged from disgust to nearly open laughter ; their style of judgement and attitude towards pop-star wannabes resulted in the controversial opinions of others about the show 's setup, including that of Take That manager, Nigel Martin Smith.
As with many musical genres, what constitutes `` pop rock '' is subjective.
` Billboard' magazine provides one perspective on how to categorize `` pop rock '' groups from the 1970s to the 2000s.
As pop-up ads became widespread, many users learned to immediately close the popup ads that appeared over a site without looking at them.
Pop-under ads do not immediately impede a user 's ability to view the site content, and thus usually remain unnoticed until the main browser window is closed, leaving the user 's attention free for the advertisement.Pop-under ads were first introduced by ExitExchange corporation in 1999.
After years of controversy and numerous articles on the pop-under patent -LRB- see references -RRB-, the patent was awarded by the United States Patent and Trademark Office -LRB- USPTO -RRB- in April and June of 2008.
Although the pop-under ad is ubiquitous with annoying methodologies it still is used by major publishers such as CNN.com and Wall Street Journal.
The link-ups were arranged by aid worker Bill Carter, who interviewed ordinary people about their experiences of the ongoing War in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The Sarajevo show had to wait until the PopMart Tour, when U2 became the first major band to perform in the city after the war had ended.
The highly emotional concert was among the highlights of the PopMart Tour. 50,000 people attended and effort was made to make sure all the ethnic groups were present.
Also in attendance were several hundred members of the international `` Stabilisation Force '' -LRB- SFOR -RRB- who were tasked at that time with upholding the Dayton Agreement.
A danger now arose in the shape of a conspiracy on the part of the deposed despots, the Orsini, and of some of Cesare 's own condottieri.
His goods were confiscated, his aged mother turned into the street and many other members of the clan in Rome were arrested, while Giuffre Borgia led an expedition into the Campagna and seized their castles.
Thus the two great houses of Orsini and Colonna, who had long fought for predominance in Rome and often flouted the Pope 's authority, were subjugated and the Borgias' power increased.
Cesare then returned to Rome, where his father asked him to assist Giuffre in reducing the last Orsini strongholds ; this for some reason he was unwilling to do, much to Alexander VI 's annoyance ; but he eventually marched out, captured Ceri and made peace with Giulio Orsini, who surrendered Bracciano.
He spent most of his time working on questions of theology.
He engaged in long theological debates with other noted figures of the age such as William of Ockham and Meister Eckhart.
On July 21, 2006, Pope Benedict XVI that he does not plan to intervene diplomatically in the Middle East fighting, but called on people of all religions to join Sunday 's worldwide day of prayers for peace.
`` I think it is best to leave that to the diplomats, because we do n't enter politics.
Our goal is simply peace, and we will do everything to help attain peace, '' Benedict told reporters as he returned from an hour-long hike in the Italian Alps. The pope has set aside Sunday as a worldwide day of prayers for peace, hoping the prayers will bring a halt to the fighting.
We will help with our prayers and with the people we have in ... in Lebanon ''.
He was one of the most-travelled world leaders in history, visiting 129 countries during his pontificate.
He was fluent in many languages : his native Polish as well as Italian, French, German, English, Spanish, Portuguese, Russian, Croatian, Ancient Greek and Latin.
As part of his special emphasis on the universal call to holiness, he beatified 1,340 people and canonised 483 Saints, more than the combined tally of his predecessors during the last five centuries.'.
Despite an illegitimate daughter, rumors also surrounded Julius about his sexuality.
Leo XIII worked to encourage understanding between the Church and the modern world, though he preferred a cautious view on freedom of thought, stating that `` is quite unlawful to demand, defend, or to grant unconditional freedom of thought, or speech, of writing or worship, as if these were so many rights given by nature to man '' Leo 's social teachings are based on the Catholic premise, that God is the Creator of the world and its Ruler.
He opposed notions of marriage as a commercial contract, divorce, and education without religion, a State without God.Humanum Genus 20, 21, 22 He rejected some forms of egalitarianism : `` People differ in capacity, skill, health, strength ; and unequal fortune is a necessary result of unequal condition.
Rerum Novarum', All men are equal in regard to their common origin and nature, or the last end which each one has to attain, or the rights and duties which are thence derived.Humanum Genus 26 Leo XIII predicts that if state authorities do not heed these eternal truths, if they permit `` the fear of God and reverence for divine laws being taken away '', overthrow of the existing order and of the authorities themselves will occur.
Attempts are under way, he claims, by communists, socialists and Freemasons.Humanum Genus 26. 27 But, whoever strive against the order which Divine Providence has constituted pay usually the penalty of their pride, and meet with affliction and misery where they rashly hoped to find all things prosperous and in conformity with their desires.Humanum Genus 28 Obedience to God is a teaching which supports civil authorities, because Church teaching about the divine origin of authority civil authority, and fosters obedience to it.Humanum Genus 29.
The encyclical Sacerdotalis Caelibatus from 24 June 1967, confirms the traditional Church teaching, that celibacy is an ideal state and continues to be mandatory for Roman Catholic priests.
However, during his pontificate Paul VI was considered generous in permitting bishops to grant laicization of priests who wanted to leave the sacerdotal state, a position which was drastically reversed by John Paul II in 1980 and cemented in the 1983 Canon Law that only the pope himself can in exceptional circumstances grant laicization.
His most important and longest work is his autobiography ` Commentaries' in 13 books, first published in 1584 by Cardinal Francesco Bandini Piccolomini, a distant relative.
Piccolomini altered it to some extent, removing words, phrases and whole passages that were unflattering to his relative.
Pius II was also the author of numerous erotic poems and an obscene comedy titled ` Chrysis' -LRB- such ethics were not unusual for his period -RRB-.
He celebrated several jubilees such as the 300th anniversary of the Council of Trent, and his own Golden Jubilee in 1868.
The Italian government, intervening in Church affairs, had outlawed in 1870 a number of popular pilgrimages.
At the 50th anniversary of his Episcopal consecration, people from all parts of the world came to see the old pontiff from 30 April 1877 to 15 June 1877.
Cornwell 's work was the first to have access to testimonies from Pius 's beatification process as well as to many documents from Pacelli 's nunciature which had just been opened under the seventy-five year rule by the Vatican State Secretary archives.Sanchez, 2002, p. 34.
Much praise of Cornwell centered around his disputed claim that he was a practising Catholic who had attempted to absolve Pius with his work.Sanchez, 2002.
While works such as Susan Zuccotti 's ` Under His Very Windows : The Vatican and the Holocaust in Italy' -LRB- 2000 -RRB- and Michael Phayer 's ` The Catholic Church and the Holocaust, 1930 -- 1965' -LRB- 2000 -RRB- are critical of both Cornwell and Pius XII, Ronald J. Rychlak 's ` Hitler, the War and the Pope' is critical as well but defends Pius XII in light of his access to most recent documents.Ronald J Rychlak ` Hitler, the War and the Pope' Genesis Press, Columbus, MS, 2000, pp 401 ff.Cornwell 's scholarship has been criticized.
For example, Kenneth L. Woodward stated in his review in ` Newsweek' that `` errors of fact and ignorance of context appear on almost every page. ''.
The power held by Sergius IV was often overshadowed by Crescentius III, the ruler of the city of Rome at the time.
De Rossi therefore concluded that the Urban buried in the Coemetarium Praetextati was another bishop and Pope Urban was located in St. Callistus' Catacomb.
To guide the various dioceses under his jurisdiction to nominate the candidates for episcopal shepherding, and thus consecrate the Hierarchs for these eparchies.
To consecrate bishops for various dioceses or bishoprics, to elevate bishops to the metropolitan dignity and to consecrate and enthrone Patriarchs for daughter autonomous or autocephalous churches of the Apostolic Throne of Alexandria.
To promulgate missions to preach Christianity to various parts of the world.
There are Coptic Orthodox Churches worldwide in Canada, the United States, Australia, New Zealand, England, France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Belgium, The Netherlands, Switzerland, Greece, Brazil, Bolivia and other nations.
The real-time price fluctuations of the artists were shown in the ` control panel' and also by numerous charts on the individual artists' pages. 24hr summaries of the biggest risers and fallers were shown on the -LRB- largely redundant but highly popular -RRB- shakers and movers -LRB- S&M -RRB- chart.
The best 40 players were recorded in the ` rich-list' on the comprehensive stats pages.
Occasionally prizes like compact discs and shirts were given out to those who performed best.
As of June, 2005, over 150,000 people belonged to the site, which was based in London, United Kingdom.
More importantly, in more recent decades the sudden change to mainstream diet could also have negative side-effects, not just with members of this community, but for all First Nation people ; on or off reserve.
The introduction of additives to foods such as hormones, antibiotics, tranquilizers, excessively high sugar, salt, and other additives, and even caffeine, nicotine and alcohol, could cause chemical changes in the bodies of First Nation people interfering with mental wellness.
This would explain the high incidents of alcoholism, higher than average rates of suicide, as well as other social ills.
There have been no in-depth scientific studies or analysis in to this particular area specifically targeted at the First Nation peoples.
The name however stuck to many languages and has caused some confusion even among linguists working with Native American languages.
This confusion prompted some kind of distinction between Popoluca languages and the spelling `` Popoluca '' with an `` u '' became used for certain Mixe-Zoquean languages, while the spelling `` Popoloca '' with an `` o '' became used for certain languages of the Popolocan family of Oto-Manguean languages.
Most of ` Popotan 's gameplay requires little interaction from the player since a majority of the time is spent reading the text that appears on the game 's screen, which represents either dialogue between the various characters or the inner thoughts of the protagonist.
Gameplay pauses at these points and, depending on which choice the player makes, the plot will progress and may branch off in a specific direction, though pursuing anyone beyond the three sisters requires at least one of the latter 's scenarios to have been successfully completed.
This allows the player to play the mini-game based upon various music tracks from the game.
Several researchers have demonstrated a statistical correlation between popper use and HHV-8-infection and development of Kaposi 's Sarcoma.
However the most recently published peer-reviewed English-language overview of research on the health risks of poppers notes a lack of controlled trials.
Anal sex was also correlated.Schechter MT, Craib KJP, Gelmon KA, Montaner JSG, Le TN & O'Shaughnessy MV -LRB- 1993 -RRB- `` HIV-1 and the aetiology of AIDS '', ` The Lancet' -LRB- March 13, 1993 -RRB- vol -LRB- 8846 -RRB- pp. 658-9. However, a meta review of 30 research articles examining HIV infection risk and club drug use showed some evidence for poppers being a risk factor for HIV infection but considered further research was necessary.Drumright L, Patterson T, Strathdee S, `` Club Drugs as Causal Risk Factors for HIV Acquisition Among Men Who Have Sex with Men : A Review '' ` Substance Use & Misuse' Vol. 41, -LRB- 10-12 -RRB- 2006, pp. 1551-1601.
However, according to an article published in the ` Medical Science Law Journal', after ingesting `` a curry meal or two containing various amounts of washed seeds '' where total morphine levels were in the range 58.4 to 62.2 µg / g seeds, the urinary morphine levels were found to range as high as 1.27 µg / mL -LRB- 1,270 ng/mL -RRB- urine.
Another article in the ` Journal of Forensic Science' reports that concentration of morphine in some batches of seeds may be as high as 251 µg / g..
In both studies codeine was also present in the seeds in smaller concentrations.
Therefore it is possible to cross the current standard 2,000 ng/mL limit of detection, depending on seed potency and quantity ingested.
Fillings in pastries are usually made of finely ground poppy seeds mixed with butter or milk and sugar.
The ground filling is used in poppy seed rolls and some croissants and may be flavored with lemon or orange zest, rum and vanilla with raisins, heavy cream, cinnamon, and chopped blanched almonds or walnuts added.
For sweet baked goods, sometimes instead of sugar a tablespoon of jam, or other sweet binding agent, like syrup is substituted.
The poppy seed for fillings are best when they are finely and freshly ground because this will make a big difference in the pastry fillings texture and taste.
Effects vary widely depending on dosage -LRB- amount of poppy straw used, alkaloid content of poppies and the quality of extraction -RRB-, on individual sensitivity and on any opiate tolerance which has built up.
Since many of the opioid receptors are located in the spinal chord -LRB- CNC -RRB- as well as in the digestive tract, the user describes the ability to feel the intestinal tract with the sensation of lightness, and pleasure.
Since opioids are known to release histamine, the user may become itchy as the liver starts to metabolize the alkaloids.
In the 1970s and 1980s, the group carried out a number of attacks on Israeli soldiers and civilians, and gained notoriety for using spectacular means.
The PFLP-GC has not been involved in major attacks on Israeli targets since the early 1990s, but it has reportedly cooperated with the Hezbollah guerrillas in South Lebanon.
`` Bad taste '' products such as pornography and horror fiction, says for instance Andrew Ross -LRB- 1989:231 -RRB-, draw their popular appeal precisely from their expressions of disrespect for the imposed lessons of educated taste.
Such popular educations were also a major feature of May '68 and of the following decenie, leading in particular to the establishment of the University of Paris VIII - Vincennes in Paris, in 1969.
Famous intellectuals such as Gilles Deleuze, Michel Foucault, Jacques Lacan and others held seminars there, in full classrooms where no seats could be found.
For instance, musicians such as Richard Pinhas assisted at Deleuze 's courses, and after having written the ` Anti-Oedipus' -LRB- 1972 -RRB- with Félix Guattari, Deleuze used to say that non-specialists had best understood their work.
Furthermore, Vincennes had no amphitheatres, representatives of the ` mandarin' teacher facing and dominating by his position several hundreds students silenciously taking notes.
The concert was broadcast worldwide including SFR Yugoslavia.
The group included Oliver Mandić, Željko Bebek, Momčilo Bajagić, Slađana Milošević, Jura Stublić, Dado Topić, Zdravko Čolić, Izolda Barudžija, Snežana Mišković, Alen Islamović, Sead Lipovača, Dejan Cukić, Doris Dragović, Anja Rupel, Srđan Šaper, Vladimir Divljan, Peđa D' Boy, Zoran Predin and other eminent musicians.
In the 1400s the great majority of these images were religious, if playing cards are excluded.
Most were coloured, usually crudely, by hand or later by stencil.
Old master print is a term that at this period includes popular prints, but later is restricted to more expensive and purely artistic prints.
Finally, layered on top of this was a popular ideological view of the time that property, wealth and inequality was against the teachings of God, as expressed through the teachings of the Franciscans.
In other words, `` gentleman '' are nobles, all men are equal before God.
It was a cry for a leveling of society where no man is above any other.
His central argument on population is as follows : A cancer is an uncontrolled multiplication of cells ; the population explosion is an uncontrolled multiplication of people.
Treating only the symptoms of cancer may make the victim more comfortable at first, but eventually he dies - often horribly.
The pain may be intense.
It does not relate to carrying capacity, and is not a term in opposition to overpopulation, which deals with the total possible population that can be sustained by available food, water, sanitation and other infrastructure.
`` Underpopulation '' is usually defined as a state in which a country 's population has declined too much to support its current economic system.
In this case, the younger generation may not be able to support the older generation.
In populations where a disease is endemic, most adults are exposed to the disease at a young age.
In a naive population, all age groups are affected at once, leaving few or no healthy caregivers to nurse the sick.
With no resistant individuals healthy enough to tend to the ill, a disease may have higher fatalities than otherwise.
In the nineteenth century, the United States government removed a number of Native American nations to federally owned and designated Indian reservations.
Starting in the 1830s with the Choctaw people, the policy known as Indian removal relocated many nations living east of the Mississippi River to the Indian Territory in the west, a process that resulted in the `` Trail of Tears '' for the Cherokees.
Resistance to Indian removal led to several violent conflicts, including the Second Seminole War in Florida.
Later in the century, the establishment of reservations for the Plains Indians led to numerous Indian Wars.
` Populism' is the use of discourses, ideas or policies which try to appeal to `` the people '' by setting up a dichotomy between `` the people '' and `` the elite ''.
This populist appeal to `` the people '' has often been associated with an emotional appeal to identities, including national, class, ethnic and regional ones.
Populism may involve either a political philosophy urging social and political system changes - as used by various populist parties - and/or a rhetorical style, deployed by members of the political class competing for advantage within the existing regime.
The most basic unit is the Brave, which builds houses, towers, and military buildings.
Warriors are the most basic military unit, employing a melee attack.
The Shaman herself is fairly weak, although she can be resurrected indefinitely during gameplay.Shamans make up for their weakness with a number of spells, which can be used in offensive or defensive situations.
However, they may be larger.
Verandahs, for example, are usually quite large and may encompass the entire facade as well as the sides of a structure.
At the other extreme, the Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island, Michigan has the longest porch in the world at in length.
Although popular in the whole country, porchetta originated in central Italy, with Ariccia -LRB- in the Province of Rome -RRB- being the town most closely associated with it.
Elsewhere, it is considered a celebratory dish.
Across Italy is usually sold by pitchmen with their typically white-painted vans, especially during public displays or holidays, and it can be served in a panino.
It is also eaten as a meat dish in many households or as part of a picnic.
They staked twelve claims near their discovery and then, because different sponsors had staked them food money, they flipped a coin to determine how to divide the claims.
Hollinger won the toss and chose the six claims on the west.
Noah 's nephew, Alphonse Paré, described it : `` It was as if a giant cauldron had splattered the gold nuggets over a bed of pure white quartz crystals as a setting for some magnificent crown jewels of inestimable value. ''.
Porcupine Tree is notable for being an album-oriented band, making very conceptual records where many songs are related to each other.
I do n't like the idea of any song sounding like any other song.
So most of the time it 's a case of finding the sound world first whether it be a texture or a drum rhythm that sets you off on a certain musical path, or particular musical atmosphere, or flavor. ''.
For their records, the band include mellotron, hammered dulcimer and guimbri among other unusual instruments for rock bands.
Gershwin biographer Edward Jablonski has claimed that the melody to `` It Ai n't Necessarily So '' was taken from the Haftarah blessing, Jablonski, Edward.
New York : Doubleday, -LRB- 1987 -RRB-. Cited in Benaroya, Adam -LRB- May 2000 -RRB-.. ` I.L. Peretz Community Jewish School'. Retrieved January 2, 2005. and others have attributed it to the Torah blessing.Pareles, Jon -LRB- January 29, 1997 -RRB-.
The pig hair is usually removed by quickly burning the skin of the pig before it is cut into pieces and cooked in hot fat.
He has also lost some of the charm and physical attractiveness he previously possessed.
Nikki Fuller-Smith - 25-year old university student and film studies major who moonlights performing minor sexual favours at a sauna/massage parlour.
Lauren - Nikki 's best friend and flatmate, a feminist, who tries to dissuade Nikki from being in a porn film.
The total current income of the country 's adult entertainment is often rated at $ 10 -- 13 billion, of which $ 4 -- 6 billion are legal.
The figure is often credited to a study by Forrester Research and was lowered in 1998. Dan Ackman,, Forbes.com, 25 May 2001.
Edward Helmore,, guardian.co.uk, 16 December 2007. Accessed 04 March 2009. Other sources, quoted by Forbes -LRB- Adams Media Research, Veronis Suhler Communications Industry Report, and IVD -RRB-, even taking into consideration all possible means -LRB- video networks and pay-per-view movies on cable and satellite, web sites, in-room hotel movies, phone sex, sex toys, and magazines -RRB- mention the $ 2.6 -- 3.9 billion figure -LRB- without the cellphone component -RRB-.
Other countries commonly visited by American companies involve Colombia and Mexico.
Magazines are, along with videos, popular media for pornographic materials.
Furthermore, a female and male doll may be partially clothed or even nude as long as it is a work of art and is not in an act of sex.
Porphyry of Gaza is known to us only from the vivid biography by Mark the Deacon.
The ` Vita Porphyrii' appears to be a contemporary account of Porphyry that chronicles in some detail the end of paganism in Gaza in the early fifth century.
However the text has been identified in the 20th century as hagiography rather than history and some elements of it are certainly examples of the stereotyped events characteristic of this form of fiction Apparent use of Theodoret and other later sources convinced P. Peeters that it was actually written after 534.
-LRB- P. Peeters, `` La vie géorgienne de Saint Porphyre de Gaza '' ` Analecta Bollandiana'' 59' 1941, pp 65-216.. On the other hand the author was certainly intimately familiar with Gaza in late Antiquity Helen Saradi-Mendelovici, `` Christian Attitudes toward Pagan Monuments in Late Antiquity and Their Legacy in Later Byzantine Centuries '' ` Dumbarton Oaks Papers'' 44' -LRB- 1990, pp. 47-61 -RRB- pp 53f instances as history the destruction of the temples in Gaza in ` Vita Porphyrii'., and his statements are of interest at least as reflecting attitudes in the 5th century.
Porsche 's head engineer at the time, Helmuth Bott, approached Schutz with some ideas about the Porsche 911, or more aptly, a new one.
Bott also knew through experience that a racing program usually helped to accelerate the development of new models.
The motor had originally been developed for the `` Moby Dick '' race car and then been redeveloped slightly for the short-lived Porsche Indy Car and several other projects before being `` tweaked '' a last time for use in the 961, the 959 's racing counterpart.
The use of sequential twin turbochargers rather than the more usual identical turbochargers for each of the two cylinder banks allowed for smooth seamless delivery of power across the engine RPM band, in contrast to the abrupt on-off power characteristic that distinguished Porsche 's other turbocharged engines of the period.
In his police interview Bryant admitted to having car jacked the BMW, but claimed it only had three occupants and denied shooting any person.
He also claimed he did not take the BMW from the vicinity of the toll booth and that his hostage was taken from the BMW.
He also denied visiting Port Arthur on that day, despite identification by several people including the toll attendant.
Bryant also claimed that the guns found by police were not his, but admitted to owning the shotgun that was found with his passport back in his own car near the toll booth.
The festival ran from 1981-1986, beginning with some 1,500 visitors over four days, and featured a mix of music, theatre and visual arts.
By 1985-6 the festival, like so many of the time, had become victim of its own success.
Despite the tolerance of the then Lord Eliot and fellow festival benefactor Michael Eavis at Glastobury -LRB- known affectionately in festival crew parlance as ` The Good Lord and The Worthy Farmer' -RRB- the travellers put paid, it was said, to the Elephant Fayre and seriously compromised Glastonbury.
The land around Port Jackson was occupied at the time of European discovery and colonisation by various tribes including the Gadigal, Cammeraygal, Eora and Wangal peoples.
The area along the southern banks of the Parramatta River, west of Petersham to Rose Hill, was reported to belong to the Wanegal.
The Eora people lived on the southern side of the harbour, close to where the First Fleet settled.
Its ensembles include Guitar Ensemble, Peapods Blues Revue, 11, and several vocal and instrumental groups.
The 2007-2008 line-up for The Accidentals consisted of John Vaillancourt -LRB- Guitar, Lead Vocals, Keyboards -RRB-, Drew Chester -LRB- Guitar, Lead Vocals, Keyboards -RRB- Nicole Damoff -LRB- Vocals, Lead Guitar -RRB-, Brian McClean -LRB- Lead Guitar -RRB- Andrew `` Thunderthumbs '' Britton -LRB- Bass, Backing Vocals -RRB-, Richard Girvan -LRB- Lead Guitar -RRB-, and Jeremy Foster -LRB- Backing Vocals, Violin, Keyboards, Percussion -RRB- and the groups director Mr. Gordon `` Girv '' Girvan.
Port Richmond, at the beginning of the century, was a working-class neighborhood, and most workers simply walked to their nearby workplaces with lunch pail in hand.
Cars were not common and those who had them stored them in stables.
There are some mangroves -LRB- avicennia marina var resinifera -RRB- remaining from the pre-settlement forests along Torrens Island, the north arm of the river and north of the Submarine Corporation near `` mutton cove ''.
Spring tides are over 21 metres and at low tide mudflats are exposed near the outlet of the river, forming a breeding ground for blue swimmer crabs and other species.
Bottlenose dolphins are often seen in the river, examine and follow small boats and have become a well known tourist attraction with dolphin cruises departing from ` Queens Wharf'.
The industrialised nature of the Port River has led to concern for the welfare of the bottlenose dolphin population and studies have shown that some of the dolphins have very high metal burdens in comparison to dolphins elsewhereLavery, TJ, Kemper, CM, Sanderson, K, Schultz, CG, Coyle, P, Mitchell, JG, Seuront, L. -LRB- 2009 -RRB-.
Port Royal grew to be one of the two largest towns and the most economically important port in the English colonies.
During a twenty-year period that ended in 1692, nearly 6,500 people lived in Port Royal.
In addition to prostitutes and buccaneers, there were four goldsmiths, forty-four tavern keepers, and a variety of artisans and merchants who lived in 200 buildings crammed into 51 acres -LRB- 206,000 m2 -RRB- of real estate. 213 ships visited the seaport in 1688.
The city 's wealth was so great that coins were preferred for payment rather than the more common system of bartering goods for services.
Port forwarding is commonly done on Unix computers where port numbers numbered below 1024 can only be accessed by software running as the root user.
For example, a web server may be listening on a port such as 8080 for traffic redirected from the restricted port 80.
A port may be forwarded for use by either the TCP protocol, the UDP protocol, or both.
Because they believe they are communicating directly with the controller, any drive that holds to the SATA standard can be connected to a port multiplier.
The controller can issue commands to only one disk at a time and can not issue commands to another disk until the command queue has been completed for the current transactions.
This means that the full bandwidth of the link will most likely not be used.
This kind of switching is therefore used when capacity is the major concern not performance.
Although these cases are rare, most of the time the legal process involves proving that an intent to commit a break-in or unauthorized access existed, rather than just the performance of a port scan : \ n In June 2003, an Israeli, Avi Mizrahi, was accused by the Israeli Police of the offense of attempting to the unauthorized access of computer material.
The judge even ruled that this kind of actions should not be discouraged when they are performed in a positive way. \ n A 17-year old Finn was accused of attempted computer break-in by a major Finnish bank.
He performed several port scans on Cherokee County servers to check its security and eventually port scanned a web server monitored by another IT company, provoking a tiff which ended up in a tribunal.
There are other areas of vulnerability that terrorist may infiltrate.
Exiting trucks may contain WMD or terrorist operatives that are to infiltrate a surrounding metropolitan area, i.e. transporting a chemical explosive device -LRB- from the Port of Los Angeles -RRB- to a more densely populated area -LRB- downtown Los Angeles -RRB-.
The disabling of a ship at port is enough to halt all activity at that port for an extended period of time, especially if the disabled ship is blocking a throughway for other vessels.
An example of such an economic impact can be drawn from a labor-management dispute that closed ports along the west coast of the U.S.. These port closures cost the U.S. economy approximately $ 1 billion dollars per day for the first 5 days, and rose exponentially thereafter.
Port-wine stains occur most often on the face but can appear anywhere on the body.
Early stains are usually flat and pink in appearance.
As the child matures, the color may deepen to a dark red or purplish colour.
In adulthood, thickening of the lesion or the development of small lumps may occur.
In various works of fiction, such as cartoons and Dungeons & Dragons, a ` portable hole' is a device that can be used to contravene the laws of physics.
It generally resembles a circular cloth which is placed on a surface to create a hole.
If placed on a wall, for example, the user could crawl through the hole and come out on the other side of the surface.
In another instance, if the hole was placed on the ground, the user might be able to insert objects into it or allow others to fall in, as if he or she had dug a hole.
Chlorine is considered slightly better than iodine against ` Giardia'.
A more complete field solution that includes chemical disinfectants is to first filter the water, using a 0.2 micron ceramic cartridge pumped filter, followed by treatment with iodine or chlorine, thereby filtering out cryptosporidium, Giardia, and most bacteria, along with the larger viruses, while also using chemical disinfectant to address smaller viruses and bacteria that the filter can not remove.
-LRB- Traditional English and American popular cooking traditions of that time demanded that all vegetables be boiled or otherwise cooked before being served. -RRB-.
The best known strawberry farm was R. M. Kellogg 's in Three Rivers, founded in 1896.
The diagnosis of portal hypertensive gastropathy is usually made on endoscopy.
The pattern is usually seen throughout the stomach.
However, in GAVE, the ectatic blood vessels are more commonly found in the antrum or lower part of the stomach.
Winds on the Great Lakes are notoriously unpredictable and can increase to gale forces and more almost without warning.
Plum Island and tiny Pilot Island are almost in the very middle of what is commonly considered Death 's Door and thereby pose hazards.
While the Porte des Morts Passage proper to the south of Plum Island is relatively hazard free, the Detroit Island Passage to the north of Plum Island has many.
The shows usually featured opening performances by Wagoner with performances by Jean, or later Parton, and comedic interludes by Rhodes.
During Parton 's tenure, she and Wagoner usually sang a duet -LRB- Wagoner did not duet with Norma Jean -RRB-.
Each episode also featured a guest who would usually perform one or two songs.
A spiritual or gospel performance was almost always featured toward the end of the show ; generally performed by either Wagoner or Parton, or the show 's guest star, or occasionally the entire cast.
When a freed dislocation runs through thr crystal it disturbs other locked dislocations, and may cause an avalanche-like freeing of dislocations.
Since this process can happen several times, it leads to serrations in the curve.
Laboratory studies show that ` Portia' learns very quickly how to overcome web-building spiders that neither it nor its evolutionary ancestors would have met in the wild.
On the other hand they will use a head-on approach against spitting spiders that are carrying eggs.
Against other jumping spiders, which also have excellent vision, ` Portia 's may mimic fragments of leaf litter detritus.
On the other hand they simply stalk and rush unarmed prey such as flies, and also capture prey by means of sticky webs.
Then in 1999, and again in 2001, Enron attempted to sell PGE to other investor-owned utilities including Portland based NW Natural.Hill, Gail Kinsey.
` The Oregonian', May17 2002. The corporate officers of PGE have claimed that this utility was not involved in the financial misdealings of its owner, pointing to the fact that many of its employees suffered when Enron froze the 401 -LRB- k -RRB- retirement plan and were unable to sell the rapidly declining stock.
However, Ken Harrison and Joseph Hirko, PGE 's CEO and CFO respectively at the time of the Enron merger were charged on several felony level counts primarily related to financial misrepresentation regarding Enron Broadband Services which had its headquarters within the World Trade Center complex that comprises PGE 's corporate offices.
In addition Tim Belden, head of the West Coast Trading Desk and John Forney, an energy trader who invented various electricity trading strategies such as the ` Death Star', operated from the trading floor in the PGE corporate offices and were also convicted of financial crimes related to the California Electricity Crisis.
To ride a cab, one can walk to the nearest `` taxi stop '' -LRB- usually in crowded areas or points of interest -RRB-, wave for an empty passing cab or call a tele-táxi service.
Tele-táxi may charge extra for this service.
The price of the fare is determined by a machine called taxímetro, usually in front of the passenger seat.
As a fast-expanding suburb during the 19th century Portobello attracted many upwardly-mobile families whose members went on to play important roles in politics, the arts and the sciences.
Although usually referred to as Portobello Bridge, the correct name is La Touche Bridge -LRB- named after William Digges La Touche -LRB- 1747-1803 -RRB-, scion of a prominent Dublin business family and a director of the Grand Canal Company -RRB-.
For some unaccountable reason he took his army over to Finglas, where he spent a month, which allowed the Roundheads to reinforce and plan their attack.
Ormonde 's army was defeated, many of them killed, and the place where they fell -LRB- mainly between Rathmines and Ranelagh -RRB- was known for a long time as the Bloody Fields.F.
` Portrait photography' is a popular commercial industry all over the world.
Subjects were generally seated against plain backgrounds and lit with the soft light of an overhead window and whatever else could be reflected with mirrors.
Among the other possible variables, the subject can be clothed or nude ; indoors or out ; standing, seated, reclining ; even horse-mounted.
Portrait paintings can be of individuals, couples, parents and children, families, or collegial groups.
They can be created in various media including oils, watercolor, pen and ink, pencil, charcoal, pastel, and mixed media.
Artists may employ a wide-ranging palette of colors, as with Pierre-Auguste Renoir 's ` On The Terrace' -LRB- 1881 -RRB- or restrict themselves to mostly white or black, as with Gilbert Stuart 's ` Portrait of George Washington' -LRB- 1796 -RRB-.
` Portrait photography' is the capture by means of photography of the likeness of a person or a small group of people -LRB- a group portrait -RRB-, in which the face and expression is predominant.
Like other types of portraiture, the focus of the photograph is the person 's face, although the entire body and the background may be included.
A portrait is generally not a snapshot, but a composed image of a person in a still position.
A portrait often shows a person looking directly at the camera.
The inscription on the label `` This likeness taken '' has been criticised as not a contemporary formulation.Jonathan Bate in ` Shakespeare 's Face', by Stephanie Nolen, London : Piatkus, 2003, ISBN 0749923911, p. 307.
These machines utilised several features for the first time which have since become commonplace in machine design. \ n The boring operation indented gauging points in the wooden blocks which the clamps of the later machines used to locate the blocks precisely.
This meant that positioning of the block in later processes ensured accurate location in relation to the tool working on it. \ n several of the machines had cone clutches. \ n Brunel used detachable tool bits held in tool holders very similar to those use now on general purpose lathes. \ n Expanding collet chucks were used to locate the sheaves by gripping the internal bore, during certain operations. \ n Two-jaw gripping chucks were used on some machines.
These were precursors of the three-jaw chucks used on lathes today. \ n The morticing machines could be set to stop automatically once the operation was finished. \ n Interchangeability of the sheaves and pins was possible, since they were not married to a particular shell. \ n The work-flow is perhaps best described as batch production, because of the range of block sizes demanded.
The town now has an annual Red Sails Festival each July, which in 2004, as with most years, culminated with a firework display out over the bay.
Over 70,000 people crammed the seafront to watch.
Doctor Robert F Kaiko inventor of the popular opioid analgesic ` Oxycontin' went to school in Portstewart.
He was then part of Paul McCartney 's group Wings, before moving onto other groups.
In 1348 and 1349, like the rest of Europe, Portugal was devastated by the Black Death., Great Moments in Science, ABC Science In 1373, Portugal made an alliance with England, which is the longest-standing alliance in the world.'. -RSB- -RSB- In 1383, the king of Castile, husband of the daughter of the Portuguese king who had died without a male heir, claimed his throne.
An ensuing popular revolt led to the 1383-1385 Crisis.
In the 1940s, the integration of traditional authorities into the colonial administration was deepened, a level of social integration, miscegenation and social promotion based in skill and human qualities of each individual, rather than in the ethnic background, which was coined ` lusotropicalismo' and had been a major feature of the Portuguese Empire throughout history.
Gradually, these `` traditional '' titles lost some of their content, and the ` régulos' and ` cabos de terra' came to be viewed as an effective part of the colonial state, remunerated for their participation in the collection of taxes, recruitment of the labor force, and agricultural production in the area under their control.
In major urban areas, most notoriously the cosmopolitan provincial ports of Lourenço Marques and Beira, racial integration and socioeconomic opportunities for all kind of skilled citizens were already very deep.
From then on, all Africans were considered Portuguese citizens, and racial discrimination became a sociological rather than a legal feature of colonial society.
During the Gothic era, several castles had to be either built or reinforced, especially along the border with the Kingdom of Castille.
Compared to previous castles, Gothic castles in Portugal tended to have more towers, often of circular or semi-circular plan -LRB- to increase resistance to projectiles -RRB-, keep towers tended to be polygonal, and castle gates were often defended by a pair of flanking towers.
A second, lower wall curtain -LRB- barbicans -RRB- were often built along the perimeter of the main walls to prevent war machines from approaching the castle.
Features like machicolations and improved arrowslits became also widespread.
This was decided via another voting process.
On-going campaigns are reuniting people in favour and against the usage of fair use.
However, if one rewrites the article in another dialect -LRB- provided content was changed, not merely the language -RRB-, but leave some words in the former dialect, these words should be rewritten in accordance with the new version 's dialect of the article.
Only the most frequent sounds are given below, since a listing of all cases and exceptions would be too cumbersome.
Portuguese is a pluricentric language, and the pronunciation of some of the letters is different in European Portuguese -LRB- EP -RRB- and Brazilian Portuguese -LRB- BP -RRB-.
Apart from these variations, the pronunciation of most consonants is fairly straightforward, and similar to French or Catalan pronunciation.
Only the consonants ` r', 's', ` x', ` z', the digraphs ` ch', ` lh', ` nh', ` rr', and the vowels may require special attention from English speakers.
His principal defect is monotony : his own self is his solitary theme, and he seldom attempts any other form of composition than the sonnet.
Despite alternative possible sources for lineages ascribed a Sephardic Jewish origin, these proportions attest to a high level of religious conversion -LRB- whether voluntary or enforced -RRB-, driven by historical episodes of social and religious intolerance, that ultimately led to the integration of descendants.
'' ` Despite alternative possible sources for lineages' ascribed a Sephardic Jewish origin' '', `` They are really assuming that they are looking at this migration of Jewish immigrants, but the same lineages could have been introduced in the Neolithic '' said Stephen Oppenheimer.
Francisco Sá Carneiro, the dynamic leader of the PSD and a fierce personal rival of Soares, put together a coalition of his own PSD along with the CDS, the Popular Monarchist Party -LRB- Partido Popular Monárquico -- PPM -RRB-, and another small party to form the Democratic Alliance -LRB- Aliança Democrática -- AD -RRB-.
The coalition won 45.2 % of the vote in the elections, or 128 seats, for a majority of 3 in the 250-seat assembly.
The PCP, in coalition with another left-wing party, gained slightly.
The flowers appear depending upon rainfall and may occur year round.
The flowers open singly at the center of the leaf cluster for only a few hours on sunny mornings.
A second city, Mapusa, is situated some 7 kilometers from here.
Tourist folks usually visit this peaceful paradise to enjoy some leisure.
As of the other parts of Goa, Konkani remains the predominantly spoken language.
There are also some villages close by such as Guirim, Aldona, Assanora, Thivim.
Poser comes with a host of features, such as the inclusion of `` Primitive '' zygotes ; spheres, cubes and other shapes at both low and high resolution.
As with Poser 5.0, it is compatible with 3ds Max, LightWave and Maya, which enables Poser version 6.0 and higher to render more than simply people.
Indeed, Poser has become almost limitless in the characters it can render.
As a result of its huge third-party community, many models are available, such as spaceships, aliens, weapons, scenes, buildings, and other such props.
The freedom allowed by using computer-generated imagery allows pornographic -LRB- erotic -RRB- artists to create scenes or scenarios that would not be possible -LRB- or legal -RRB- within the realm of live action shooting.
Another popular sub genre of Poser porn that exploits the freedom of computer-generated porn appeals to vorarephiles -LRB- this form of Poser porn falls under the vore category -RRB-.
Released in June 2009, the book was favorably reviewed by the vast majority of those who picked it up.
Johanna Draper Carlson -LRB- ` Comics Worth Reading' -RRB- said it was `` the best anthology -LSB- she had -RSB- read this year, '' in her 2009 MoCCA report.
The music e-zine Absolute Punk gave away three copies of the book to its users, introducing their users to Poseur Ink 's other comics and products.
A sleep study at an accredited sleep lab is usually necessary before treatment can start.
Simple systems that clearly separate the inputs from the outputs are not prone to systemic risk.
This risk is more likely as the complexity of the system increases, because it becomes more difficult to see or analyze all the possible combinations of variables in the system even under careful stress testing conditions.
The more efficient a complex system is, the more likely it is to be prone to systemic risks, because it takes only a small amount of deviation to disrupt the system.
Therefore well-designed complex systems generally have built-in features to avoid this condition, such as a small amount of friction, or resistance, or inertia, or time delay to decouple the outputs from the inputs within the system.
People have been discussing the question of human happiness since at least Ancient Greece.
Limitations to the widespread use of PET arise from the high costs of cyclotrons needed to produce the short-lived radionuclides for PET scanning and the need for specially adapted on-site chemical synthesis apparatus to produce the radiopharmaceuticals.
This limitation restricts clinical PET primarily to the use of tracers labelled with F-18, which has a half life of 110 minutes and can be transported a reasonable distance before use, or to rubidium-82, which can be created in a portable generator and is used for myocardial perfusion studies.
Nevertheless, in recent years a few on-site cyclotrons with integrated shielding and hot labs have begun to accompany PET units to remote hospitals.
VI. 13 And when in the Circus Flaminius3 -LRB- I will not say the consul had been conducted into the assembly by a tribune of the people, but -RRB- the archpirate had been brought in by another robber, he came first a man of what exceeding dignity, full of wine, sleep, and debauchery ! with hair dripping with ointments, with carefully arranged locks, with heavy eyes, moist cheeks, a husky and drunken voice ; and he, a grave authority, said that he was greatly displeased at citizens having been executed without having been formally condemned.
For that other man, Caesoninus Calventius, from his youth up has been habituated to the forum, though, except his assumed and crafty melancholy, there was no single thing to recommend him, -- no knowledge of the law, no skill in speaking, no knowledge of military affairs or of men, no liberality.
And he has masters, none of those foolish fellows who go on for whole days discussing duty and virtue, -- who exhort men to labour, to industry, to encounter dangers for the sake of their country, but men who argue that no hour ought to be unoccupied by pleasure ; that in every part of the body there ought always to be some joy and delight to be perceived. 15 He uses his masters as a sort of superintendents of his lusts ; they seek out and scent out all sorts of pleasures ; they are the seasoners and furnishers of his banquets they appraise and value the different pleasures, they give a formal decision and judgment as to how much indulgence ought to be allowed to each separate pleasure.
He, becoming accomplished in all these arts, despised this most prudent city to such a degree that he thought that all his lusts and all his atrocities could be concealed, if he only thrust his ill-omened face into the forum.
Public Law 108-446, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act of 2004, is most commonly called IDEA 2004.
Following enactment, the U.S. Department of Education took nearly two years to develop the federal regulations to answer common questions about critical parts of the law.
Opposing doctrines include : \ n ` Midtribulationists' believe that the rapture of the faithful will occur halfway through the Tribulation, after it begins, and will endure the phase of the Tribulation which tests their faith, but that they will be removed before the last half occurs, because that three and one-half year period is manifestly dominated by the wrath of God falling on those who reject him, Supporters of this view often cite 1 Thessalonians 5.9, `` For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ.
'' \ n ` Pretribulationists' believe that all Christians then alive will be taken bodily up to Heaven -LRB- called the rapture -RRB- before the Tribulation begins.
They often quote 2 Thessalonians 2.6,7 to support the idea that the Holy Spirit will be withdrawn as a stabilizing influence on secular society -LRB- Matt 5.13 -RRB- through the removal of the Church.
Those who become converts after the rapture will, like the Old Testament saints, not be indwelt by the Holy Spirit in the same sense as Christians are said to be today.
Mowat sent police and government officials into the disputed territory to assert Ontario 's claims, while Manitoba -LRB- at the behest of the national government -RRB- did the same.Ibbotson, p. 46 The Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, which served as Canada 's highest appeal court until 1949, repeatedly issued rulings taking the side of provincial rights.
These decisions would to some extent neutralize the power of the central government, creating a decentralized federation quite different from what Sir John A. Macdonald had envisioned.Ibbotson, p. 49 `` By the eve of the First World War, Confederation had evolved into a creation beyond John A. Macdonald 's worst nightmare.
Powerful, independent provinces, sovereign within their own spheres, manipulated the rights of property, levied their own taxes -- even income taxes, in a few cases -- exploited their natural resources, and managed schools, hospitals, and relief for the poor, while a weak and ineffectual central government presided over not much of anything in the drab little capital on the banks of the Ottawa. ''.
The groups have collaborated at times on events, although collaboration has not always been easy.
Lerner, though irked that NION and UFPJ did not stand up for his inclusion as a speaker, continued to encourage people to attend the rally.
Are there any other places in the world in which the Jews' conditions are better from a historical point of view ?.
-LRB- For example North America -RRB- \ n Is it really possible to have both a Jewish state and a democracy ?.
Spanish social work researchers claim that some psychopathological characteristics are frequently observed in women who have voluntarily aborted.
These include `` dreams and nightmares related with the abortion, '' and `` feelings of guilt ''.
Ongoing disabilities may be treated with therapy to improve function at work, or in social or other contexts.
Therapy aims to aid in the gradual return to work and other preinjury activities, as symptoms permit.
CBT may help prevent persistence of iatrogenic symptoms -- those that occur because health care providers create the expectation that they will.
A risk exists that the `` power of suggestion '' may worsen symptoms and cause long-term disabilities ; therefore, when counseling is indicated, the therapist must take a psychological origin of symptoms into account and not assume that all symptoms are a direct result of neurological damage from the injury.
Using humor in such scenes is also still common for more serious films, as in the film ` Daredevil', in which Bullseye is shown after his defeat by Daredevil in a full body cast.
Another example happens in ` Hellboy' when Tom Manning is shown still wandering around the catacombs when he was last seen previously in the film when the other major players have left.
Other films eschew the comedy in favor of a twist or revelation that would be out of place elsewhere in the movie, as in ` X-Men : The Last Stand 's post-credits scene, which suggests that Professor X may have transferred his mind to the body of a comatose patient -LRB- which was revealed in the DVD commentary to be the identical twin of Charles Xavier, whose mind had been crippled and destroyed due to Charles 's growing powers in their mother 's womb -RRB-.
In ` Iron Man', Samuel L. Jackson makes a cameo appearance as Nick Fury, who wants to talk to Tony Stark about the `` Avenger Initiative '' -LRB- Jackson will reprise the role in other Marvel films, including ` The Avengers', ` Iron Man 2', ` Thor', and ` The First Avenger : Captain America' -RRB-.
He further writes in the article thatThe clear majority of those who leave of their own free will speak positively of certain aspects of their past experience.
Long-term and heavily involved members of new religious movements who over time become disenchanted with their religion often throw all of the blame on their former religious associations and activities. -LSB- ... -RSB-.
` Power noise' -LRB- also known as ` rhythmic noise' -RRB- takes its inspiration from some of the more structured and distorted early industrial acts, such as Esplendor Geométrico.Hymen Records, Converter, Coma record description.
Access date : August 8, 2008. Typically, power noise is based upon a distorted kick drum from a drum machine such as a Roland TR-909, uses militaristic 4/4 beats, and is usually instrumental.
Sometimes a melodic component is added, but this is almost always secondary to the rhythm.
Amarah : A roadside bomb killed one and wounded three others in Amarah.
Tal Afar : A roadside bomb in Tal Afar killed four, including a policeman, and wounded eight other people.
Mosul : Six people were shot dead, including one policeman.
Baqubah : Eight people were killed in different incidents.
The general philosophy behind post-metal production is that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts, so each instrument is usually given about equal presence.
Vocals are often not particularly high in the mix, and in most cases are `` barked '' in the style of hardcore punk or metal, i.e. guttural and shouted, rather than growled in death metal.
Lyrics cover a broad spectrum of issues, usually somewhat metaphysical, existentialist or macroscopic, as opposed to deeply personal or directly allegorical.
Themes often include political dissatisfaction, or criticism of herd mentality.
Because PPS can fatigue facial muscles, as well as cause dysphagia -LRB- difficulty swallowing -RRB-, dysarthria -LRB- difficulty speaking -RRB- or aphonia -LRB- inability to produce speech -RRB-, persons with PPS may become malnourished due to difficulty eating.
Severe cases may require permanent ventilation or tracheostomy.
Sleep apnoea may also occur.
Other management strategies that may lead to improvement improvement include smoking cessation, treatment of other respiratory diseases and vaccination against respiratory infections such as influenza.
Vocals are often omitted from post-rock ; however, this does not necessarily mean they are absent entirely.
Many contributors, most notably Jacques Derrida, Michel Foucault, and Julia Kristeva, either inverted structuralist principles or set out to reject them outright.
In direct contrast to the structuralist claim of an independent signifier superior to the signified, post-structuralism generally views the signifier and signified as inseparable but not united ; meaning itself inheres to the play of difference.
Anti-humanism, as a rejection of the enlightenment subject, is often a central tenet.
In addition, two color names may be combined, as in `` gray green '' or `` brown orange '', where the first name indicates the direction of modification to the second color.
This system becomes less clear when extended to other colors, and few collectors could describe precisely how `` carmine rose '' is different from `` rose carmine ''.
In 1856, Mexico issued its first adhesive postage stamps, with `` district overprints '', a unique feature among postal systems worldwide, employed to combat theft of postage stamps.
The Mexican Revolution and ensuing Civil Wars -LRB- 1910-1920 -RRB-, however, threw Mexico into upheaval and resulted in numerous provisional and local stamps issued by the factions in control of different areas of the country.
In the years preceding World War II, the look of Mexico 's stamps changed dramatically, with many stamps displaying the works of modern Mexican abstract and mural artists.
A series of 16 stamps in 1939 commemorating the 25th anniversary of the canal 's completion showed `` before '' and `` after '' views of various points along the canal.
Usage of ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 codes was recommended to be used starting in 1994, but did not become widely used.
The European Committee for Standardization recommends use of ISO Alpha-2 codes for international postcodes and a UPU guide on international addressing states that `` administrations may recommend '' the use of ISO Alpha-2 codes.
` Service marks' provide information to the sender, recipient, or another post office.
-LRB- For example, a letter may be marked `` snowbank '' if snow accumulation not cleared by the potential recipient, or for whatever other reason, makes it difficult or impossible for the carrier to deliver the mail. -RRB-.
The tracking process for registered mail may entail multiple marks, notations and backstamps.
As with blurbs, another way Ginsberg offered appreciation for younger poets was in interviews.
In 1996, with less than a year to live, Gloria G. Brame asked Ginsberg, `` Which younger poets do you believe are doing the most promising work ?.
Ginsberg responded : `` There are quite a few whom I like and with whom I feel a great deal of empathy.
All of these poets at one time or another passed through Naropa.
He met Neal Cassidy before he died and has some of his energy.
I 've read with him a number of times ... There 's a poet called Eliot Katz who lives in New Brunswick, NJ.
His family comes from Germany and most of them were wiped out in the concentration camps ... Sapphire -LRB- author -RRB-, a young student of mine at Brooklyn college ... She 's a black lesbian.
Paul Beatty is another former student of mine : he is a rapper with a literary, be-bop sound.
Many departments, especially those in which students have research or teaching responsibilities, offer tuition-forgiveness and a stipend that pays for most expenses.
The terms of these stipends vary greatly, and may consist of a scholarship or fellowship, followed by teaching responsibilities.
The nomenclature associated with titles arising from postgraduate research vary from one institution to another and one country to another.
For example, at Bachelor 's level, it would be common to receive a BSc -LRB- Chemistry -RRB-.
There are some exceptions to this.
In a professional Doctorate, where the objective is to demonstrate an in-depth research knowledge of a particular area, the discipline is usually included -LRB- e.g., Doctor of Business -RRB-.
Because of ubiquitous support for the SQL Standard amongst most relational databases, the community considered changing the name back to Postgres.
To the English artist and critic Roger Fry in 1920, El Greco was the archetypal genius who did as he thought best `` with complete indifference to what effect the right expression might have on the public ''.
Fry described El Greco as `` an old master who is not merely modern, but actually appears a good many steps ahead of us, turning back to show us the way ''. M..
Kimmelmann, During the same period, other researchers developed alternate, more radical theories.
Doctors August Goldschmidt and Germán Beritens argued that El Greco painted such elongated human figures because he had vision problems -LRB- possibly progressive astigmatism or strabismus -RRB- that made him see bodies longer than they were, and at an angle to the perpendicular.
In the English-speaking world, the Bloomsbury art critics Roger Fry and Clive Bell were his first champions.
Fry, in a 1924 essay, `` Vincent Van Gogh, '' reported that after Van Gogh 's death, he `` disappeared '' and `` scarcely any picture dealer in Bond Street gave him another thought '' until the 1910 show titled `` Post Impressionist Exhibition '' in which `` his works dazzled, astonished and infuriated all cultured England. ''.
Fry 's essay canonized Van Gogh as `` a saint '' of art, `` the victim of the terrible intensity of his convictions-his conviction that somewhere one might lay hold of spiritual values compared with which all other values were of no account. ''.
At times, patients may be unaware that they had a seizure, and the characteristic migraine is their only clue.
Depression is also very common after a seizure.
Inline replying was also originally used in all e-mail -LRB- because such users had come from Usenet -RRB-,, but most users and providers have abandoned -LRB- or never got used to -RRB- this style.
Despite the wide spread myth of hormonal involvement, repeated studies have not linked hormonal changes with postpartum psychological symptoms.
Rather, these are symptoms of a pre-existing mental illness, exacerbated by fatigue, changes in schedule and other common parenting stressors.
All stamp editions are about items relating to the Faroes and most of them are designed by Faroese artists.
Churches and other Christian motifs play a distinct role before Christmas.
Essentially custom built for different types of operations and the space configuration available, the larger recirculators are available in three compartment sink sizes with various options.
In addition to requiring a 3 phase supply for the water pump and high-power heater, these larger units have wash sinks with up to 75 U.S. gallons -LRB- 280 L -RRB- of water capacity for handling many pots and pans.
Some of the other options available with recirculators include built-in waste disposers, drain boards of various lengths, shelves over or under and additional scraper sinks.
KOH attracts numerous specialized applications, which virtually all rely on its basic or degradative properties.
Its corrosive properties make it useful as an ingredient in cleaning and disinfection of resistant surfaces and materials.Römpp Chemie-Lexikon, 9th Ed. -LRB- in German -RRB- It is often the main active ingredient in chemical `` cuticle removers. ''.
Before the large-scale industrial fixation of nitrogen through the Haber process, major sources of potassium nitrate were the deposits crystallizing from cave walls and the draining of decomposing organic material.
Dung-heaps were a particularly common source : ammonia from the decomposition of urea and other nitrogenous materials would undergo bacterial oxidation to produce nitrates.
These often contained calcium nitrate, which could be converted to potassium nitrate by the addition of potash from wood ashes.
Due to the long half-life, the technique is most applicable for dating minerals and rocks more than 100,000 years old.
Although it finds the most utility in geological applications, it plays an important role in archaeology.
It has also been indispensable in other early east African sites with a history of volcanic activity such as Hadar, Ethiopia.
At harvest time, gardeners usually dig up potatoes with a long-handled, three-prong `` grape '' -LRB- or graip -RRB-, i.e. a spading fork, or a potato hook which is similar to the graip but its tines are at a 90 degree angle to the handle.
This is transported up an apron chain consisting of steel links several feet wide, which separates some of the dirt.
The most complex designs use vine choppers and shakers, along with a blower system or `` Flying Willard '' to separate the potatoes from the plant.
The result is then usually run past workers who continue to sort out plant material, stones, and rotten potatoes before the potatoes are continuously delivered to a wagon or truck.
PVY infection of potato plants results in a variety of symptoms depending on the viral strain.
The mildest of these symptoms is production loss, but the most detrimental is ` potato tuber necrotic ringspot disease' -LRB- PTNRD -RRB-.
PVY is transmissible by aphid vectors but may also remain dormant in seed potatoes.
This means that using the same line of potato for production of seed potatoes for several consecutive generations will lead to a progressive increase in viral load and subsequent loss of crop.
The march to Logansport had been under a hot sun through the dust cloud kicked up by the movement of people and animals.
There were sick people and people dying in all directions.
The heat has weakened most if not all of the children.
I baptized several who were newly born - happy Christians, who with their first step pass from earth to heaven.
: : Guchuko is another mysterious creature that appeared in Sunao 's refrigerator, and is somewhat similar to Potemayo in appearance.
The name Guchuko is derived from a small chocolate ball called a guchu which Guchuko likes to eat, and added at the end, since it is a common ending for female given names in Japan.
Since it was too late to correct, the author stated, `` so please take it as a vulgar and savage scythe edged outside, as it would fit Guchuko 's character. '' with a skull on it, and can fire strong energy beams from two living horns -LRB- or possiblyworms -RRB- on either side of her head.
She has a very self-sufficient personality, and has only partially warmed up to Kyo, who often gives Guchuko food when at school or at home ; Guchuko often repays Kyo by putting pig or cow carcasses in front of her house.
The mathematical study of potentials is known as potential theory ; it is the study of harmonic functions on manifolds.
In physics, a ` potential' may refer to the scalar potential or to the vector potential.
Leading examples are the gravitational potential and the electric potential, from which the motion of gravitating or electrically charged bodies may be obtained.
Buffy and the other Slayers watch and learn from this example and Buffy lectures the girls on how to deal with vampire attacks.
Buffy has Spike attack her to continue, but she easily gets the upper hand and pins Spike to the ground, reawakening some of his wounds and some feelings for both of them.
They believe the First is taking a brief break from them, but it will come back stronger and better than before.
While Dawn watches silently from the stairs, Buffy tries to give the girls another pep talk.
depicting the Klallam people of chief Chetzemoka at Port Townsend, with one of Chetzemoka 's wives distributing potlatch. -RSB- -RSB- Before the arrival of the Europeans, gifts included storable food -LRB- oolichan -LSB- candle fish -RSB- oil or dried food -RRB-, canoes, and slaves among the very wealthy, but otherwise not income-generating assets such as resource rights.
The catastrophic mortalities due to introduced diseases laid many inherited ranks vacant or open to remote or dubious claim-providing they could be validated-with a suitable potlatch. -LRB- 1 -RRB- Boyd -LRB- 2 -RRB- Cole & Chaikin.
Potluck dinners are often organized by religious or community groups, since they simplify the meal planning and distribute the costs among the participants.
Smaller, more informal get-togethers with distributed food preparation may also be called potlucks.
In some cases each participant agrees ahead of time to bring a single course, and the result is a multi-course meal.
Guests may bring in any form of food, ranging from the main course to desserts.
Despite all the devastation, commercial life reappeared in the ruins around Potsdamer Platz within just a few weeks of war 's end.
The lower floors of a few buildings were patched up enough to allow business of a sort to resume.
The new East German state-owned retail business H.O. -LRB- ` Handelsorganisation', meaning Trading Organisation -RRB-, had seized almost all of Wertheim 's former assets in the newly-created German Democratic Republic but, unable to start up the giant Leipziger Platz store again -LRB- it was too badly damaged -RRB-, it opened a new ` Kaufhaus' -LRB- department store -RRB- on the ground floor of Columbushaus.
Since the American, British and Soviet Occupation Zones converged there, people theoretically only had to walk a few paces across sector boundaries to avoid the respective Police officials.
Early ceramics built by coiling were often placed on mats or large leaves to allow them to be worked more conveniently.
By the time of the early civilizations of the stone Age the use of the potter 's wheel had become widespread.
`` Nesh '' meaning soft, tender, or to easily get cold is derived from the early English, `` nesc, nescenes. '' \ n `` Slat '' meaning to throw, is from the old English `` slath, '' moved. \ n `` Fang '' meaning catch or seize, as in `` Fang ` owt of this '' - `` catch hold of this '', is from Old English `` fang, fangen ''. \ n `` Sheed '' meaning to spill liquids, most likely derived from the word `` shed '' in the sense of getting rid of something. \ n `` Cost keck a bow aggen a woe an y' ed it till thee bost it ? '' meaning, `` Can you kick a ball against a wall and head it till you burst it ? ''.
`` Duck '' a common term of affection towards both men and women as in `` Tow rate owd duck ? ''.
Duck being derived from the Saxon word `` ducas '' as a term of respect, which by another route is where the word `` Duke '' arises from in English.
Parts of hand-built vessels are often joined together with the aid of slurry or slip, a runny mixture of clay and water.
Local people raised L6 ,000 to help those most in need.Potton Town Guide -LRB- 2006 -RRB- Providing temporary accommodation in nearby fields for the townsfolk alone cost L25 ,000.
Rebuilding after the fire has left the town with a number of Georgian buildings.
It was home to several arable farms until it flooded in 1884, leading to its temporary abandonment and longer term use as pasture.
The island was reclaimed in the 1940s but some time after being acquired by the Ministry of Defence in 1955 it reverted to pasture.
It has recently been disclosed -LRB- June 2005 -RRB- that Potton Island was considered by the UK government in the 1980s or 1990s as a potential long term storage site for high level nuclear waste.
At the turn of the 21st century, almost all of Potts Point 's hotels were acquired by developers attracted by the area 's proximity to transportation and amenities.
Sydney City Council has commenced a major streetscape upgrade centred on Darlinghurst Road and the southern part of Macleay Street, involving footpath-widening, roadside tree-plantings and the installation of new paving, street furniture and lighting.
Plans to force the replacement of historic neon shopfront and awning signage on strip clubs and other adult commercial premises in the area with generic signage proved more controversial and have not been implemented.Wylde Street home -LRB- 1922 -RRB-, formerly home of William Scott Fell, shipping merchantTusculum, Manning Street.
Husqvarna also provides lawn mowers, lawn tractors, and other yard equipment to Sears to be sold as the Craftsman brand.
Husqvarna produces products under many brand names.
There was another station, Poulton Curve Halt, for Fleetwood to Blackpool trains, between 1909 and 1952.
Pubs and clubs - Poulton is known for its many drinking establishments, restaurants and nightclubs.
The horse bucked and kicked so much that she dug out the Grand Canyon. \ n The Epic of Gilgamesh includes many pourquoi stories from Mesopotamian folklore : how the Beqa'a Valley was formed, why meat becomes rancid when left in the sun, and why snakes shed their skins while people -LRB- who are mortal -RRB- do not. \ n Origin stories, explaining how a comic book hero or heroine came to have their special characteristics. \ n Alamat, very loosely translated into `` legend, '' are stories in Philippine Folk Literature which explain how things came to be.
An example would be the Alamat of the Pineapple where a girl who is too lazy to look for things is transformed into a fruit with numerous `` eyes. ''.
Several Québécois communities claim to be the birthplace of poutine, including Drummondville -LRB- by Jean-Paul Roy in 1964 -RRB-, Article on Poutine coming to New York City Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, and Victoriaville.
One often-cited tale is that of Fernand Lachance, from Warwick, Quebec, which claims that poutine was invented in 1957, when a customer ordered fries while waiting for his cheese curds from the Kingsey cheese factory in Kingsey Falls -LRB- now in Warwick and owned by Saputo Incorporated -RRB-.
Rises in the costs of living make poor people poorer.
Poor people spend a greater portion of their budgets on food than richer people.
The World Bank warned that 100 million people were at risk of sinking deeper into poverty.
In the same way that people are either registered as urban or rural, land in China is zoned as either rural or urban.
In urban areas people can easily sell their land and buildings, or mortgage them to borrow.
But, at the same time, it is efficient to alienate some of the land out of agriculture for urban use.
More than 103 million people have moved out of desperate poverty in the course of one generation in urban and rural areas as well.
They project that if India can achieve 7.3 % annual growth over the next 20 years, 465 million more people will be spared a life of extreme deprivation.
To understand drum protocol, a drum may be thought of as a person or being and is to be regarded and respected as such.
Northern drums are set up on the outside of the dance area, with the host drum in the best position.
Musicians may not casually leave the drum, and it may never be left completely by itself till it is carried out at the end.
People bring water to the drummers and generally assist the players as needed.
It lets users catalog movies with detailed information from big movie sites like IMDb, the German Kino.de, and other online-databases.
Once you arrive at a location, a character appears on the screen with some dialogue.
Then special events pop up throughout the game after this number is met which usually involve a tournament or beating some strong boss -LRB- video games -RRB- type character.
The first Power Shift Conference took place from November 2 to 5, 2007 with between 5,000 and 6,000 students and young people in attendance.
At the University of Maryland, College Park, a rally of between 2,000 and 3,000 people on the steps of the Capitol building and a Lobby Day.
The unmarked category becomes the norm, with the other categories relegated to deviant status.
Power cables may be either fixed or detachable from the appliance.
Cords may also have twist-locking features, or other attachments to prevent accidental disconnection at one or both ends.
A cord set may include accessories such as fuses for overcurrent protection, a pilot lamp to indicate voltage is present, or a leakage current detector.
Power cords for sensitive instruments, or audio/video equipment may also include a shield over the power conductors to minimize electromagnetic interference.
Power metal is highly focused on the vocalist, with `` clean '' vocals being much more prevalent than the growled or screamed vocals often associated with death metal and black metal.
Following in the tradition of Ronnie James Dio, Bruce Dickinson, Rob Halford and other heavy metal vocalists, power metal vocals are often in a high register.
The majority of the genre 's vocalists sing in the tenor range, capable of hitting very high notes, like Timo Kotipelto of Stratovarius, Michele Luppi of Vision Divine, Michael Kiske -LRB- ex-Helloween -RRB- or Ralf Scheepers of Primal Fear.
There are however many exceptions such as Pyramaze / Iced Earth frontman Matt Barlow, Falconer frontman Mathias Blad, and Sabaton frontman Joakim Broden ; they sing in either baritone or bass range, though in certain songs like Creator Failure, Barlow hits very high notes reminiscent of Rob Halford.
In the simplest form there are two different thresholds available, common called High-Vt and Low-Vt, where Vt stands for threshold voltage.
In lacrosse, a similar type of penalty situation exists, though the duration of the penalty is only 30 seconds for minor infractions and one minute for major ones, as well as 3 minute penalties for certain equipment infractions.
Depending on the infraction, the penalty may `` release '' early if a goal is scored by either team, or may be `` non-releasable, '' meaning the full duration must be served.
This situation is also often called an `` extra man offense '' -LRB- EMO -RRB- or `` man up '', or `` man down '', depending on the team penalized.
In indoor soccer, in the forms usually played in the United States, there exists a powerplay situation similar to ice hockey.
The accompanying - selling album, ` Get the Knack', paved the way for major label debuts that fall by The Pop, Shoes, 20/20 and The Beat.
However, `` My Sharona '' 's ubiquitous radio presence that summer spawned a popular and critical backlash against the band, which in turn led to a backlash against the power pop genre in general.
The Romantics had a minor hit with `` What I Like About You '' in early 1980, but, by then, power pop was seen as a passing fad by many critics.Rockwell, John `` Disco vs. Rock and Industry Ills Made the Year Dramatic '' ` The New York Times' December 30, 1979 : D20 Most of this crop of bands continued to release albums throughout the early 1980s, but with the exception of The Romantics' ` In Heat' -LRB- 1983 -RRB-, none garnered much attention.
Other groups such as The Plimsouls and the dB 's found a home on college radio, where power pop would endure for the remainder of the decade.
Violet power rings are fueled by the emotion of love, one of the two emotions -LRB- the other being rage -RRB- that most influence their user.
At present, members of the Star Sapphires have only been depicted as being female ; however, during the ` Blackest Night' panel at Comic Con International 2009, Geoff Johns explained that `` anyone can join, but most men are not worthy.
While trapped within these rehabilitation crystals, members of other corps have been shown to be slowly converted into Star Sapphires.
Green Lantern Corps' -LRB- vol. 2 -RRB- # 30 -LRB- November 2008 -RRB- Violet rings are able to detect when true love is being threatened, can create a connection to an embattled heart and use it as a tether, and are also shown as being able to show others their greatest love.'.
During the late 1960s, many groups used power trio instrumentation while adding a vocalist.
These include The Who, Led Zeppelin, Black Sabbath, and Queen -LRB- even though Freddie Mercury, too, was an instrumentalist, some of the band 's songs follow this format -RRB-.
Likewise, Mountain is often erroneously referred to as a power trio, even though there were four instrumentalists -LRB- guitar, bass, drums, and keyboards -RRB- in the band.
First, it must be pursued only as a means to some end, and not as an end in itself ; moreover, if it is an end in itself, then it must be of comparatively lower value than one 's other goals.
Second, the ultimate goal must be to help satisfy the desires of others.
Third, the means by which one pursues one 's goal must not be egregious or malign, such that they outweigh the value of the end ; as -LRB- for instance -RRB- the gassing of children for the sake of future democracy -LRB- Russell 1938:201 -RRB-. This is explicitly intended as one possible argument against utilitarianism, though Russell does not take it to be decisive.
Worth noting is that the 601 not only implemented substantial new key functions such as SMP, but it also acted as a bridge between the POWER and the future PowerPC processors to assist IBM, Apple, and other system vendors and software groups in their transitions to PowerPC.
Wind hazards include terrain-induced air disturbances called rotors -LRB- it is advisable to stay upwind of trees, mountains, and other obstacles that disturb the flow of the wind -RRB-.
Wake turbulence created by the passage of other aircraft, especially aircraft that are heavy, aerodynamically clean, and slow pose another significant hazard.
And since the slow-moving powered parachute -LRB- like the helicopter -RRB- is particularly well equipped to fly safely near the ground, special care must be taken to avoid power lines, trees, and other low-level terrain obstacles.
Powerlifting, in most federations, involves three events : squat, bench press and deadlift.
Some variations of this are found at some meets such `` push-pull only '' meets where lifters only compete in the bench press and deadlift, with the bench press coming first and the deadlift after.
Single lift meets are often held, sometimes alongside a normal 3-lift event.
This is most common in the bench press.
Around 80 % of its workers, most of whom lost premium pay in June as the government suddenly raised the required work quota, took to the streets demanding pay compensation and some freedom concessions, marching towards the city centre.
Workers at other plants, institutions and students joined the procession.
Between 9:00 am and 11:00 am, about 100,000 people gathered on the Adam Mickiewicz Square in front of the Imperial Castle in Poznań, surrounded by buildings occupied by the city and party authorities and police headquarters.
The demonstrators demanded lower food prices, wage increases and the revocation of some recent changes in the law that had eroded workers' conditions.
Prabhat Kalavidaru has produced about 20 ballets ; some of which are ` Mohini Bhasmasura', ` Karnataka Vaibhava', ` Kindari Jogi', ` Rama Pratiksha', and ` Punyakoti'.
Lot of experimentation is involved in enacting these dramas like amalgamating Western dance forms with Indian classical dance forms to create some sort of a fusion dance style and also using special lighting techniques to enhance the appeal of the drama.
Prabhat Kalavidaru were one of first theatre groups in India to introduce pre-recorded dialogues and lip-synchronisation.
After which the party came forward with a strategy of democratic republic rather than a people 's republic.
Dr. Bhattarai 's work-strategy has worked out till date, which put forward the party as a major key holder of the nation 's politics.
Chairman Prachanda and Dr. Bhattarai seem at one side keeping some disagreement with the work strategy with the other senior leader Mohan Vaidya alias Kiran.
The two leaders agree strengthening the newly established democratic republic rather than implementing a people 's republic immediately.
Moreover, a growing number of legal document assistants -LRB- LDAs -RRB- are offering services which have traditionally been offered only by lawyers and their employee paralegals.
Compared to other forms of Southeast Asian kickboxing, pradal serey tends to emphasize more elusive and shifty fighting stances.
The Cambodian style also tends to utilize more elbow techniques than that of other regions.
More victories come by way of an elbow technique than any other strikes.
Members of an alliance may not attack one another.
In times of crisis team members can call upon each other via the message line : `` We need help. ''.
` Praetorians' differs from other games of its genre in that resources do not play a part in it.
In most real time strategy games, items such as wood, food, gold, stone and glory must be collected, to be spent during the creation of troops.
It is a huge complex of buildings spread across acres of land sprinkled with many lawns.
The complex houses many pavilions like the Nehru Pavilion, the Defense Pavilion, the Indira Pavilion, and the Son of India Pavilion.
In clearness 's second grade, he defines truth as a sign 's correspondence to its object, and the real as the object of such correspondence, such that truth and the real are independent of that which you or I or any definite community of researchers think.
Then in clearness 's third grade -LRB- the pragmatic grade -RRB-, he defines the truth as that which would be reached, sooner or later but still inevitably, by research adequately prolonged, such that the real does depend on that final opinion -- a dependence to which he appeals in theoretical arguments elsewhere, for instance for the long-term validity of the rule of induction `` That the rule of induction will hold good in the long run may be deduced from the principle that reality is only the object of the final opinion to which sufficient investigation would lead '', in Peirce, C. S. -LRB- 1878 April -RRB-, `` The Probability of Induction '', p. 718 in ` Popular Science Monthly', vol. 12, pp. 705-718.
C.S. Peirce considered the idea that beliefs are true at one time but false at another -LRB- or true for one person but false for another -RRB- to be one of the `` seeds of death `` See Peirce 's 1908 `` A Neglected Argument for the Reality of God '', final paragraph. by which James allowed his pragmatism to become `` infected. ''.
For Peirce the pragmatic view implies theoretical claims should be tied to verification processes -LRB- i.e. they should be subject to test -RRB-.
Truth is defined, for Peirce, as what ` would' be the ultimate outcome -LRB- not any outcome in real time -RRB- of inquiry by a -LRB- usually scientific -RRB- community of investigators.
Hilary Putnam also developed his internal realism around the idea a belief is true if it is ideally justified in epistemic terms.
After this he died touching the clock, at which point the clock stopped working and remained unrepairable for a number of years.
In the 17th century moving statues were added, and figures of the Apostles were added after major repair in 1865-1866.
Without the dedication and hard work of these individuals, evenings like Explore PKMS would not be possible.
We wish the best of luck to both Mr. Janisch and Ms. Brackmann.
Though poison is an option to prevent voles, poisoned voles can create a threat to other animals and humans.
Voles are prey for other predators.
In addition, when placing poison near vole entrances, other animals may be able to reach it making it a hazard to them.
In residential areas, the poison itself and poisoned voles can be harmful and/or dangerous to people as well as domesticated animals.
This also is in tune with the jain religion where the first tirthankar is adinath himself.Woolner, pg. 3Pischel, pg. 1 The Prakrits became literary languages, generally patronized by kings identified with the Kshatriya caste, but were regarded as illegitimate by the Brahmin orthodoxy.
The various Prakrit languages are associated with different patron dynasties, with different religions and different literary traditions, as well as different regions of the Indian subcontinent.
The powder made by grinding up such sugar-coated nuts is called ` pralin', and is an ingredient in many cakes, pastries, and ice creams.Julia Child -LRB- 1961 -RRB-, ` Mastering the Art of French Cooking', Alfred A. Knopf When this powder is mixed with chocolate it becomes ` praliné' in French, which gave birth to what is known in French as ` praline belge', ` Belgian chocolates'.
The word ` praliné' is used colloquially in France and Switzerland to refer to these, known simply as ` chocolates' in English i.e. various centres coated with chocolate.
Outside of the United States, the word praline is used to mean this powder, or even a paste, often used to fill chocolates, hence its use by synecdoche in Germany, the Netherlands, and Belgium to refer to filled chocolates in general.
In the United Kingdom, the term can refer either to praline -LRB- the filling for chocolates -RRB- or, less commonly, to the original whole-nut pralines.
It is more like a senior staffer who has put in many years of service in his company feels a sense of belonging, a sense of responsibility for that company.
He is clearly a director 's actor as his portrayals in the films of Tapan Sinha, Rituparno Ghosh and Buddhadeb Dasgupta go to prove.
His low-profile portrayal of a young boy who runs a bookshop in a small town in Tapan Sinha 's Aatanka is another case in point.
Nothing is said about syntax, morphology or phonology.
` Gv' appears several times word-finally -LRB- ` Kadagv, Farigv' -RRB- and word-initially -LRB- ` Gvarab' -RRB-, and ` kv' at least once word-initially -LRB- ` Kvetur' -RRB-, and once medially -LRB- ` Takver' -RRB- ; they are suggestive of labiovelar consonants.
Other than that, consonant clusters seem rare ; there is a person named Trepil and another named Skovan.
The world as it appears to the senses is regarded as a distorted version of the world of spiritual ideas.
-LRB- However, the choice of healing method is regarded as a matter for the individual, and the Christian Science Church exerts no pressure on members to avoid medical treatment if they wish to avail of it as an alternative to Christian Science healing. -RRB-.
The Christian Scientists' aim is `` to reinstate primitive Christianity and its lost element of healing '' -LRB- Manual of The Mother Church, -RRB- which, they believe, was lost after the early centuries of Christianity.
This is a faith in the omnipotence of God, which according to the Christian Science interpretation of the Bible, logically rules out any other power :.
The Christian Science view is that Jesus taught that we should claim good as being present, right here and now, and that this will result in healing : -LRB- ; -RRB-.
Because of the subject matter ... we needed something grandiose like an earthquake or a meteor shower or some kind of act of God to show the hand of the supernatural or some greater power. ''.
Draiman said, '' -LSB- The video is -RSB- about getting through life 's obstacles and all the tests that fate may throw at you in the process.
It 's trying to convince you that you have the strength to get through whatever trials and tribulations may come your way.
By the first millennium, South America 's vast rainforests, mountains, plains, and coasts were the home of tens of millions of people.
Among those groups were the Chibchas -LRB- or `` Muiscas '' or `` Muyscas '' -RRB-, Valdivia and the Tairona.
The Chibchas of Colombia, Valdivia of Ecuador, the Quechuas of Peru, and the Aymara of Bolivia were the four most important sedentary Amerindian groups in South America.
Gonzalo Fernández de Oviedo y Valdés records several such legends in his ` General y natural historia de las Indias' of 1526, which includes biographical information on Columbus.
The crew gathered supplies and made its way back to Europe, but the trip took several months and the captain and most of the men died before reaching land.
The ship 's pilot, a man from somewhere in the Iberian peninsula -LRB- Oviedo says different versions have him as Portuguese, Basque, or Andalusian -RRB-, and very few others finally made it to Portugal, but all were very ill.
People in Oviedo 's time knew this story in several versions, but Oviedo regarded it as myth.
Archaeological finds also indicate the possible beginnings of the Bronze Age which would ultimately spread throughout the ancient world from Afghanistan.
Lee highlighted the successes of the PAP government since the last election, especially in creating jobs, reducing unemployment, retraining workers, and investing in young people.
He argued that the strategies were working and economy was striving, and that PAP had united the people under the threat of terrorism.
He said that the government would educate each Singaporean to be the best they can be.
It may be substantially the Buddhism of the Buddha himself, A. K. Warder, Indian Buddhism, 1999, 3rd edition.
Downes v. Bidwell', 182 U.S. 244, 251 -LRB- 1901 -RRB- -LRB- `` The Constitution was created by the people of the ` United States', as a union of ` states', to be governed solely by representatives of the ` states'. '' -RRB- ; ` In re Ross', 140 U.S. 453, 464 -LRB- 1891 -RRB- -LRB- `` By the constitution a government is ordained and established ` for the United States of America,' and not for countries outside of their limits.
The guaranties it affords against accusation of capital or infamous crimes, except by indictment or presentment by a grand jury, and for an impartial trial by a jury when thus accused, apply only to citizens and others within the United States, or who are brought there for trial for alleged offenses committed elsewhere, and not to residents or temporary sojourners abroad. '' -RRB-.
Id.' at 299 -LRB- `` The petitioner does not claim that he was not afforded a fair trial aside from the denial of his demand for a jury.
Inasmuch as unquestionably he obtained a trial more to his liking than he would have obtained in Shanghai in other than an American court sitting in Shanghai, and since the Supreme Court of this country has determined that the right of trial by jury does not obtain in an American court sitting in another country pursuant to treaty, it must be held that the allegations of petitioner 's petition do not entitle him to release. '' -RRB-.
Studies have demonstrated positive effects on calcium and other mineral absorptionKatharina E. Scholz-Ahrens, Jürgen Schrezenmeir ; ` Inulin and Oligofructose and Mineral Metabolism : The Evidence from Animal Trials.'.
While research does clearly demonstrate that prebiotics lead to increased production of these SCFA ` sMacfarlane S et al ; ` Prebiotics in the gastrointestinal tract' Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2006 ; 24 -LRB- 5 -RRB- : P-701-14 ; See additional :, more research is required to establish a direct causal connection.
R. Intercede for your children so that, being faithful to the spirit of Opus Dei, we may sanctify our work, and win souls for Christ.
R. That all may be one, as you, Father, and I are one ; that they may be one, as we are one.
Enkindle, O Lord, our hearts and minds with the fire of the Holy Spirit, that we may serve you with a chaste body and please you with a clean heart.
Direct, we beseech you, Lord, our actions by your inspirations, and further them by your assistance, so that every word and work of ours may begin always from you and by you be likewise ended.
Precincts usually do not have separate governmental authorities, but for purposes of conducting elections, an entity such as a county or township is typically subdivided into precincts and each address is assigned to a specific precinct.
Sometimes several precincts will use the same polling station.
A 2004 survey by the United States Election Assistance Commission reported an average precinct size in the United States of approximately 1,100 registered voters.
The company manufactures a variety of parts for the aerospace industry including many jet engine components.
PCC also makes medical prostheses and parts for other industrial applications such as in the oil industry, the gas industry, and for use in power generating turbines for producing electricity.
They are considered a leader in the manufacturing of both jet engine airfoils and gas turbines used for generating electricity.Strom, Shelly.
` The Oregonian', March 18 2007. Other products made from the various metals are fasteners, products for the paper industry, parts used in the defense industry, and parts forthe automotive industry.
Precision incorporates \ nPrecision becomes the majority shareholder in United Diamond Ltd., which designs, manufactures, rents and sells polycrystalline diamond compact -LRB- PDC -RRB- drill bits.
Precision also receives an exclusive, worldwide license to Georservices' EM-MWD technology, using it extensively with the Computalog subsidiary. \ n2001 Computalog U.S.A., Inc. acquires all shares of Premium Pump Services Inc., which provides pressure-pumping services like cementing, fracturing and other stimulation services.
Precision Drilling Corporation announces it has successfully operated its HEL MWD and PrecisionLWD tools. \ n2005 Precision Drilling Corporation sells its Energy Services and International Drilling divisions to Weatherford International Ltd. for 26,000,000 common shares of Weatherford and $ 1 CAD.
Precision Drilling Corporation announces the sale of CEDA International Corporation for a price of approximately $ 274 million CAD.
Shadow shows are known from the earliest recorded times, and the principle that an image is visually retained for a short time after observation has ceased was observed in ancient times. \ n c. 3200 BC - An earthen bowl found in Shahr-i Sokhta, Iran, has five images of a goat painted along the sides.
His lamp experiment, where several different light sources are arranged across a large area, is the first successful projection of an entire image from outdoors onto a screen indoors with the ` camera obscura'. Bradley Steffens -LRB- 2006 -RRB-, ` Ibn al-Haytham : First Scientist',, Morgan Reynolds Publishing, ISBN 1599350246 \ n 1515 - Leonardo da Vinci describes a structure that would produce this effect. \ n 1544 - Reinerus Gemma-Frisius, a Dutch scientist, illustrates large rooms built for the purpose of viewing eclipses by this means. \ n 1588 - Giovanni Battista Della Porta tips off artists to this trick. \ n c. 1610 - Johannes Kepler refers to a construction that utilises this phenomenon as a ` camera obscura'. \ n c. 1610 - Della Porta perfected the camera obscura using a convex lens. \ n 1671 - Athanasius Kircher projects images painted on glass plates with an oil lamp and a lens, his ` Magic Lantern'. \ n 1724 - Johann Heinrich Schulze discovers that certain silver salts, most notably silver chloride and silver nitrate, darken in the presence of light.
Pet cats and pet dogs under human mastership often depend on each other for warmth, companionship, and even protection, particularly in rural areas.
In the ` Aliens vs. Predator' novel series based on the Dark Horse Comics by David Bischoff, Steve and Stephani Perry, the Predators, known in the series as `` Yautja '', are depicted as living in a matriarchal clan-based society bearing similarities to a pack mentality, with the stronger and most skilled of the group being leader.
His most recent partner had tossed him across a room during the heat of their mating and that had been an accident ... ''' p. 218' `` Yautja females are bigger than males ... it also explained why this warrior was smarter than most of the Yautja he taught. ''', Steve & Stephanie Perry and sporting more prominent mammary glands -LRB- like human females -RRB-.
This musk can be detected by other Predators and canids, though it is imperceptible to humans.
Businesses with dominant or substantial market shares are more vulnerable to antitrust claims.
However, because the antitrust laws are ultimately intended to benefit consumers, and discounting results in at least short-term net benefit to consumers, the U.S. Supreme Court has set high hurdles to antitrust claims based on a predatory pricing theory.
To properly restore a Predicta -LRB- as well as other Philco sets of the era -RRB-, the PC board must be removed from the chassis.
In most cases, Sams Photofacts gives the equivalent circuit.
Proponents believe environmental benefits would result both indirectly and directly from implementation of the FairTax.
Reagan and Levin came from rightist backgrounds, and Moynihan, much like the leaders of the AFL-CIO, from a leftist anti-Stalinist social-democratic milieu, environments that disposed participants to believe the worst.
They were also for the most part ignorant of, or ignored, the basic Marxist formulation that it is impossible to build socialism in impoverished societies. ''.
If the dependent variable is discrete, some of those superior methods are logistic regression, multinomial logit and probit models.
Since it is impossible to devise a deterministic chain linking the inter-mediate state with the outcome of the game, the most complex component of any indeterministic method is assessing these intermediate stages.
It is precisely the function of predispositions to assess the impact of an intermediate state upon the future course of development. '' p. 33 According to Katsenelinboigen, calculus of predispositions is another method of computing probability.
She immediately forms a bond with Macias, an elderly and paternal Bajoran who is the leader of the Maquis cell, who Ro obviously sees as a father figure.
Soon after Ro joins the militants they hear rumors that the Cardassians are planning on arming their citizens in the zone with deadly Biogenic weapons.
Ro offers to steal the needed supplies from the ` Enterprise', however, another Maquis, mistrustful of Ro and planning to monitor her, ` volunteers' to tag along.
Though the music was more accessible than their earlier material, the lyrics and subject matter remained characteristically oblique and suggestive -LRB- McAloon has often cited Stephen Sondheim as an influence -RRB-.
Their greatest hits, ` The Best of - A Life of Surprises', gave them their biggest U.S. hit, `` If You Do n't Love Me '', which spent several weeks in the Top 10 on the dance chart.
During the Boxer troubles but three missions and a few other houses belonging to the Christians were pillaged.
It usually supplements product positioning techniques like multi dimensional scaling or factor analysis and is used to create ideal vectors on perceptual maps.
Like all regression methods, the computer fits weights to best predict data.
The resultant regression line is referred to as an ideal vector because the slope of the vector is the ratio of the preferences for the two dimensions.
Traditionally, doctors have measured pregnancy from a number of convenient points, including the day of last menstruation, ovulation, fertilization, implantation and chemical detection.
In medicine, pregnancy is often defined as beginning when the developing embryo becomes implanted into the endometrial lining of a woman 's uterus.
This is usually of no concern unless there is spotting or bleeding as well.
Australia has a slightly different pregnancy category system from the United States - notably the subdivision of Category B. The system, as outlined below, was established by the Congenital Abnormalities Sub-committee of the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee -LRB- ADEC -RRB-. ADEC Pregnancy Categories -LRB- Australia -RRB- ` Pregnancy Category A'Drugs which have been taken by a large number of pregnant women and women of childbearing age without an increase in the frequency of malformations or other direct or indirect harmful effects on the fetus having been observed.'.
Pregnancy Category B1 ` Drugs which have been taken by only a limited number of pregnant women and women of childbearing age, without an increase in the frequency of malformation or other direct or indirect harmful effects on the human fetus having been observed.Studies in animals have not shown evidence of an increased occurrence of fetal damage.'.
Pregnancy Category B3 ` Drugs which have been taken by only a limited number of pregnant women and women of childbearing age, without an increase in the frequency of malformation or other direct or indirect harmful effects on the human fetus having been observed.Studies in animals have shown evidence of an increased occurrence of fetal damage, the significance of which is considered uncertain in humans.'.
Settlements of Mesolithic hunter-gatherers have been found at about half a dozen sites scattered throughout the country : Mount Sandel in County Londonderry -LRB- Coleraine -RRB- ; Woodpark in County Sligo ; the Shannon estuary ; Lough Boora in County Offaly ; the Curran in County Antrim ; and a number of locations in Munster.
In total, some 2,079 bones, tusks, antlers and teeth of Mammuthus primigenius -LRB- mammoth -RRB-, Coelodonta antiquitatis -LRB- woolly rhinoceros -RRB-, Rangifer tarandus -LRB- reindeer -RRB-, Equus ferus -LRB- horse -RRB-, Bison priscus -LRB- bison -RRB-, Canis lupus -LRB- wolf -RRB-, Vulpes vulpes or Alopex lagopus -LRB- red or Arctic fox -RRB- and Ursus arctos -LRB- brown bear -RRB- were individually recorded and a further 25,000 bone, tooth and tusk fragments recovered.
Feces of scavengers -LRB- possibly the spotted hyena Crocuta crocuta -RRB- were also recovered from the organic sediments.
The bone varied in condition with some bones extensively weathered and others exhibiting traces of gnawing by predator-scavengers.
Bone fractures characteristic of marrow extraction by hominids have been identified on the some of the reindeer and horse bones recovered from the deposit.
Megalithic monuments are found in the Neolithic from Malta to Portugal, through France, and across southern England to most of Wales and Ireland They are also found in northern Germany and Poland, as well as in Egypt in the Sahara desert -LRB- at Nabata and other sites -RRB-.
The best preserved of all temples and the oldest free standing structures on Earth are the Megalithic Temples of Malta.
There are many sites for rock and cave art of engraved animal and human scenes in the Saharan area.
Knowth is reputed to have approximately one third of all megalithic art in Western Europe.
In particular, geophagy is widespread among contemporary nonhuman primates.Krishnamani R, Mahaney WC -LRB- 2000 -RRB-.
In the Irish tale, the Milesians, the ancestors to the Irish people, encounter a glass tower in the middle of the ocean whose inhabitants do not speak with them.
The Milesians attack, and like Arthur 's expedition, lose most of their force.
Loomis further suggests that this story is connected to the Abduction of Guinevere episode common in later literature.
Sarah Higley suggests a common story that influenced these various Welsh and Irish accounts.
Historically, psychologists suggested various personalities contributing to discrimination, including authoritarianism, dogmatism, closed-mindedness, dominant orientation, etc -LRB- Adorno, Frenkel-Brunswik, Levinson, & Sanford, 1950 ; Rokeach, 1948 ; Pratto, Sidanius, Stallworth, & Malle, 1994 -RRB-.
In general, people having these personalities tend to bias towards their own group and refuse to accept belief-contradicting information, thus remain their stereotype on the prejudiced group.
Instead of writing in terms of general ideas, d'Alembert provides the dates, places and people responsible for the progress of literary works since the Renaissance leading up to his date.
Noted in the text is the lack of improvement in philosophy in comparison to other advancements due to the ignorant belief that ancient philosophy could not be questioned. d'Alembert claims that it would be ignorant to perceive that everything could be known about a particular subject.
He makes clear that all sciences are restricted as much as can be to facts and that opinion influences science as little as possible. d'Alembert states that philosophy is far more effective at the analysis of our perceptions when the `` soul is in a state of tranquility '', when it is not caught up in passion and emotion -LRB- 96 -RRB-.
Furthermore, the importance of science and the advancements of such intellects as Francis Bacon, Isaac Newton, Descartes, John Locke and others are explained.
This can result in a deaf person becoming generally irritable.
A child who is exclusively or predominantly oral -LRB- using speech for communication -RRB- can experience social isolation from his or her hearing peers, particularly if no one takes the time to explicitly teach them social skills that other children acquire independently by virtue of having normal hearing.
There is a two-dimensional analog of pressure - the lateral force per unit length applied on a line perpendicular to the force.
These limitations make least privilege substantially less effective than the enforcement or the precise set of least privileges would suggest.
That is not to suggest one should n't try, it does help.
Private university system in Bangladesh started in 1992 and all the private universities in Bangladesh are established under the ` Private University Act 1992'.
During the early 90 's government as well as the civil society of Bangladesh felt that existing public universities are not sufficient to meet the constantly increasing high demand of higher education in Bangladesh.
All those issues leaded them to permit private sectors to establish universities.
On 9 August, 1992, the Private University Act was passed and with in the next few years a good number of private universities were established in Dhaka, Chittagong, Rajshahi and Sylhet.
North South University -LRB- 1992 -RRB- was the first private university in Bangladesh.
Independent University, Bangladesh -LRB- 1993 -RRB-, American International University - Bangladesh -LRB- 1994 -RRB-, Ahsanullah University of Science and Technology -LRB- 1995 -RRB-, East West University -LRB- 1996 -RRB- are some earliest private universities of the country.
The University Grant Commission is the monitoring body for all the private and public universities in Bangladesh.
` Property tax', ` millage tax' is an ad valorem tax that an owner of real estate or other property pays on the value of the property being taxed.
There are three species or types of property : Land, Improvements to Land -LRB- immovable man made things -RRB-, and Personalty -LRB- movable man made things -RRB-.
Real estate, real property or realty are all terms for the combination of land and improvements.
Left-wing Israelis are open to compromise on the issue, by means such as the monetary reparations and family reunification initiatives offered by Ehud Barak at the Camp David 2000 summit.
The HonestReporting organization listed the following grounds for this opposition : Palestinian flight from Israel was not compelled, but voluntary.
This point, however, is a matter of some contention.
Certain actions on the part of Jewish militias were considered to provoke Palestinians to leave Israel.
Eye witness accounts from Ain al-Zeitoum and Er-Rama, for example, record that the Palmach assembled all of their residents following the villages' surrender.
The Jewish militia then demanded that all Muslim residents depart for Lebanon, and leave their possessions behind, under pain of death.
Still, such cases were relatively rare, and the vast majority of Palestinians fled of their own accord.
In fact, a 1952 memorandum submitted to the League of Arab States by the Higher Arab Committee reveals that Arab states officially agreed to take responsibility for these refugees at the height of the Palestinian exodus, until such time as Israel would be destroyed : : Arab leaders and their ministries in Arab capitals ... declared that they welcomed the immigration of Palestinian Arabs into the Arab countries until they saved Palestine.
There is no legal basis to demand repatriation of Palestinian refugees and their descendents.
No international legislation, UN resolutions or agreements between Israel and the Palestinians require this.
Since none of the 900,000 Jewish refugees who fled anti-Semitic violence in the Arab world were ever compensated or repatriated by their former countries of residence -- to no objection on the part of Arab leaders -- a precedent has been set whereby it is the responsibility of the nation which accepts the refugees to assimilate them.
Because a right of return would make Arabs the majority within Israel, this would essentially seal the fate of the Jewish state.
As Fatah explains : `` To us, the refugees issue is the winning card which means the end of the Israeli state. ''.
The first letter indicates the half-month of the object 's discovery within that year - `` A '' denotes discovery in the first half of January, `` D '' is for the second half of February, `` J '' is for the first half of May -LRB- `` I '' is not used -RRB-, and so on until `` Y '' for the second half of December.
The first half is always the 1st through the 15th of the month, regardless of the numbers of days in the second `` half ''.
However, those who created the DSM-IV felt that there was too much room for subjectivity on the part of clinicians when identifying things like remorse and guilt ; therefore, the DSM-IV panel decided to stick to observable behaviour, namely socially deviant behaviours.
As a result, the diagnosis of APD is something that the `` majority of criminals easily meet. ''.
Hare goes further to say that the percentage of incarcerated criminals that meet the requirements of APD is somewhere between 80 to 85 percent, whereas only about 20 % of these criminals would qualify for a diagnosis of psychopath.
This twenty percent, according to Hare, accounts for 50 percent of all the most serious crimes committed, including half of all serial and repeat rapists.
According to FBI reports, 44 percent of all police officer murders in 1992 were committed by psychopaths.
Also, a free shot in hurling is a free puck.
Hockey puck bearing an early style logo of the Toronto Maple Leafs of the National Hockey League.
The first known printed reference was in Montreal, in 1876, just a year after the first indoor game was played there.
The oldest dated rock formations within the European Union can be found in Siuruankylä, Pudasjärvi.
The trondhjemite gneiss is aged 3,500 million years.
` Purpose Driven' is a term coined by American pastor Rick Warren to name the philosophy that focuses one structuring life, family, career, and church around five purposes which Warren identifies in scripture as having been given by Jesus Christ : to know and love God -LRB- worship -RRB-, to love others -LRB- fellowship -RRB-, to grow spiritually -LRB- discipleship -RRB-, to serve others with your talents -LRB- ministry -RRB- and to share the Good News -LRB- evangelism -RRB-.
Other criticism comes from the magazine being `` far too generous to british musicians '' with it 's ratings.
The orthocomplemented lattice ` Q' of propositions of a quantum mechanical system is the lattice of closed subspaces of a complex Hilbert space ` H' where orthocomplementation of ` V' is the orthogonal complement ` V' ⊥.
` Raising Dad' was an American television series that aired on the WB from September 2001 until May 2002.
The series starred Bob Saget, Kat Dennings, Brie Larson, Riley Smith, Beau Wirick, and Jerry Adler.
The Mega-PowersSavage turned face later in 1987 after drawing increasingly positive reactions for his charisma, in-ring ability, and the estimable presence of Miss Elizabeth and began to feud with The Honky Tonk Man after Honky began to refer to himself as the `` greatest Intercontinental Champion of all time. ''.
On ` Saturday Night 's Main Event' in October 1987 he solidified his status as a face when Elizabeth got Hulk Hogan to save him from a beatdown by Jimmy Hart 's cronies, The Honky Tonk Man and The Hart Foundation.
As a result, The Mega Powers were born.
Hogan and Savage together ruled the WWF for the next sixteen months.
In later years in the WWF, he also became known for a very open and unscripted rivalry with Hogan after Savage accused Hogan of sleeping in Elizabeth 's bed during a road trip.
Savage and Elizabeth were divorced on September 18 1992.
Savage and Hogan have a strained relationship to this day.
WWE -LRB- then WWF -RRB- said that Hogan 's swollen eye was due to a jet-ski accident.
In the UK, the problem is perceived as a lack of reciprocity and respect by America.
The British media often portrays a cultural skepticism towards religion.
Religious mockery, or open disbelief in Christianity, is not as culturally taboo in the British media as it could be considered to be in the other nations.

The residual value derives its calculation from a base price, calculated after depreciation.
The convention that North is at the top -LRB- and East at the right -RRB- on most modern maps was established by the astronomer Ptolemy and was widely adopted by other cartographers.
The Civil Constitution required all clerics to swear allegiance to it and by extension to the increasingly anti-clerical National Constituent Assembly.
` Nonjuring' priests declared the new civic ceremonies as false and worthless ; in response gangs of Republicans came from the cities into the countryside, closing and vandalizing the churches of nonjuring priests.
Manne is currently the Chairman of the Editorial Board of The Monthly, a national magazine of politics, society and the arts.
In 2007, American writer, director, and producer James Crump directed the documentary film ` Black White + Gray', which premiered at the 2007 Tribeca Film Festival.
It explores the influence Mapplethorpe, curator Sam Wagstaff, and musician/poet Patti Smith had on the 1970s art scene in New York City.
Paul Newman portrayed him in the 1956 film ` Somebody Up There Likes Me' as having an abusive childhood and criminal background, using boxing as an outlet for his violent behavior.
While also chair of the Law Reform Commission, she taught law at McGill University in Montreal.
Three Mi-8 / 17s are operated under direct control of Prime Minister Hun Sen 's body guard unit.
Led by General Kun Kim, the unit is based in Phnom Penh and operates in direct support of the Prime Minister.
The 70 Brigade is also based in the capital area and has around 2,000 soldiers.
The 911 Parachute Regiment is based west of Phnom Penh.
Finally, the Gendarmarie `` Miltary Police '' is a paramilitary unit with about 7,000 soldiers deployed in all provinces.
Headquartered in Phnom Penh, the unit is led by General Sao Sokha, who was one of Hun Sen 's bodyguards in the 1980s.
The term ` ruling class' refers to the social class of a given society that decides upon and sets that society 's political policy.
` Russian culture' is one that is rich and colorful.
Russians have a rich cuisine.
The ` Ryongchon disaster' was a train disaster that occurred in the town of Ryongchon, North Korea near the border with China on April 22, 2004.
In addition, Lazio won the Italian Super Cup twice and defeated Manchester United in 1999 to win the European Super Cup.
The SPECTRE cabinet had a total of 21 members.
Blofeld was the chairman and leader because he founded the organisation and Largo was elected by the cabinet to be second in command.
Maranzano 's wife, Elisabetta, died in 1964.
Both are buried in Saint John 's Cemetery, Queens, located in New York City, buried near the graves of Luciano and Genovese.
Adams was born in Dunkirk, New York.
In 1891, he graduated from Hamilton College.
As a result, Imra only `` talks '' by broadcasting her thoughts to her fellow Legion members.
She is still able to read minds, but can not express herself in spoken language, which puts her at a disadvantage in those situations where her telepathy is useless.
The Schlern dominates the villages of Seis am Schlern and Völs am Schlern, and the summit can be reached following the circular route marked with the number 1 from both villages.
The UN World Charter for Nature directs in section 21, subsections -LRB- c -RRB-, -LRB- d -RRB- and -LRB- e -RRB- : States and, to the extent that they are able, other public authorities, international organizations, individuals, groups and corporations shall : Implement the applicable international legal provisions for the conservation of nature and the protection of the environment ; Ensure that activities within their jurisdictions or control do not cause damage to the natural systems located within other States or in the areas beyond the limits of national jurisdiction ; Safeguard and conserve nature in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
Standards for SRW, SRU, and CQL are promulgated by the United States Library of Congress.
Peace talks between the southern rebels and the government made substantial progress in 2003 and early 2004, although skirmishes in parts of the south have reportedly continued.
The two sides have agreed that, following a final peace treaty, southern Sudan will enjoy autonomy for six years, and after the expiration of that period, the people of southern Sudan will be able to vote in a referendum on independence.
Furthermore, oil revenues will be divided equally between the government and rebels during the six-year interim period.
When diesels began operation between Calgary and Revelstoke in the early 1950s the Selkirks were assigned to work the Brooks, Alberta and Maple Creek, Saskatchewan subdivisions between Calgary and Swift Current, Saskatchewan.
They were also used to haul freight trains north of their new Alyth terminal as far as Edmonton, Alberta.
` Shadowbane' is a free fantasy computer role-playing game -LRB- MMORPG -RRB- created by Wolfpack Studios and published on March 25 2003 by Ubisoft for Windows and Mac platforms.
Shawnee County was a prohibition, or `` dry '', county until the Kansas Constitution was amended in 1986 and voters approved the sale of alcoholic liquor by the individual drink with a 30 % food sales requirement.
The food sales requirement was removed with voter approval in 1994.
Sherman did not view himself in this same light.
He was less concerned with the liberation of the slaves than with the well-being of his men and the overall success of his campaign.
The filmmakers hired deaf lip readers to help compose dialogue to match the lip movements of the original Japanese actors, and filled in the narrative gaps by adding voice-over narration by Daigoro, performed by the 7-year-old son of ` Shogun Assassin 's' poster illustrator.
American actor Sandra Bernhard and director -LRB- and former radio actor -RRB- Lamont Johnson provided voices in the dubbed edition.
In the Japanese versions, the Shredder is voiced by Norio Wakamoto -LRB- 1st Movie in VHS Version -RRB-, Hidekatsu Shibata -LRB- 1st Movie in TV Version -RRB- and Takeshi Watabe -LRB- 2nd Movie -RRB-.
Recent proposals to co-locate the college with Shrewsbury College of Arts and Technology, located on the edge of the town at London Road, have met with fierce opposition.
This strong opposition is from a variety of sources, in particular the student body, parents, and many staff at SSFC.
Views held against the co-location include benefits of remaining in a central location, transport issues, town centre economic impact and merger with Shrewsbury College of Arts & Technology fears.
11 acres of the land at London Rd is already owned by the college.
Vitally, students will lose use of the town facilities and some may face extra journey time and inconvenience to travel to the new site.
In 2007, a college poll found that only 3 % of students at the sixth form supported the co-location.
Staff have also shown an almost unanimous opposition to the move but have now been forced to sign a gag order so that they are not able to voice their opinion to the press and have been banned from attending any of any public meetings about the co-location.
Further, Daniel Kawczynski, MP for Shrewsbury & Atcham borough, has voiced opposition to the move, and produced an article expressing his views on his website.
For anyone reading this who feels strongly against the co-location, student or not, there is going to be a ` Peaceful Protest' run by the students which will be starting at 11:30 on Friday 21st of december at the top of the Quary.
Another version is that this name was the tribal name of ` Sibirs', Eurasian nomads, later assimilated to Siberian Tatars.
Dr. Pamela Kyle Crossley, a professor of history at Dartmouth College, asserts that the Russians named Siberia after the Sibe/Xibe.
Shaman Akkanat, from the Sibirga indigenous people, one of the last shamans in Western Siberia and a leading figure in the indigenous society in Western Siberia, said that Siberia got its name from his Nation, the Sibirga people.
The modern meaning of the name appeared in Russian language after the conquest of Siberia Khanate.
During World War II, Japan invaded rubber producing countries in order to cut off the United States supply of rubber.
It was needed in order to produce tires for vehicles, boots for solders, gas masks, rafts, and even bombers.
To help combat the lack of rubber US citizens were asked to donate any rubber around their house such as spare tires, rubber boots, and rubber rain coats.
All rubber made products were rationed and citizens had to make their products last till the end of the war.
Also in response the government asked producers to try and come up with a synthetic rubber compound.
He joined the board of American Smelting and Refining Company, later becoming the chairman of the board.
From 1919 to 1941 he was president of that company.
The bombing of Dresden in World War II, which was done through firebombing, plays a large role in the novel ; Vonnegut stated in the novel that the firebombing killed 135,000 German civilians, citing historian David Irving as the source ; Vonnegut was referring to Irving 's then-bestselling book, ` The Destruction of Dresden'.

Slidell is located on the southwest corner of the intersection of I-10, I-12 and I-59 and U.S. Highway 11.
The I-10 Twin Span Bridge runs from Slidell over Lake Pontchartrain to New Orleans East.
The word is recorded in English in 1478, deriving from the much older verb to slip, the notion being of footwear that is `` slipped '' onto the foot.
While employees who earned $ 50,000 per year would have collected $ 1,302 per month in Social Security benefits, the private plan paid them $ 6,843 per month.
While employees who earned $ 20,000 per year would have collected $ 775 per month in Social Security benefits, the private plan paid them $ 2,740 per month, at interest rates prevailing in 1996..
Briefly, the concept of soul widespread amongst the Muslims today is a mixture of Greek-Hindu-Christian beliefs and Islamic sources.
Islam itself discerns between `` Ruh '' and `` Nafs '' just like it is done in the Hebrew language.
Both `` Ruh '' and `` Nafs '' are translated into soul causing much confusion concerning the two different concepts.
No where in Quran it is said that the Ruh of man which is the source of life speaks to him or whispers to him but it is often said that his Nafs whispered to him.
But Nafs is not the source of life.
These two versions survive in two different manuscript collections of poetry.
These two collections are known as the Vercelli Book -LRB- Soul and Body I -RRB-, and the Exeter Book -LRB- Soul and Body II -RRB-.
The numbers I and II refer to modern assignments to each poem to differentiate between the two different versions the sources provide us with.
The station is served by local services operated by First Great Western from London Paddington to Reading, Oxford and Newbury, and by Heathrow Connect services from Paddington to Heathrow Airport.
The station is on the original line of the Great Western Railway, now known as the Great Western Main Line.
Southeastern Louisiana University is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools -LRB- SACS -RRB- to award degrees at the Associate, Baccalaureate and Master 's levels.
Southeastern has been accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools since 1946.
Each August Southend Carnival opens along the `` Golden Mile '' with the lighting of the Southend Illuminations.
A new teleprinter was used for communications from the ground crew, freeing the Salyut crew from constant interruptions during their work.
Spaulding High School also boasts an impressive Drama Club, having recently performed such classics as Disney 's Beauty and the Beast, The Mikado, and Into the Woods.
In 2005, she directed her final show with the SHS Drama Club, Beauty and the Beast.
Since her departure, Tom Blachly of Marshfield has stepped into the shoes of artistic director.
Whereas Gillander was a fan of large casts, moving musicals, and well-known shows, Blachly is renowned for his love of obscure, heady, small-cast shows.
Due to controversy surrounding previous productions, Blachly 's contract as Drama Coach has not been renewed for the 2007-2008 academic year.
As of August 2007, Illene Gillander returned to SHS Drama to direct the Sondheim favorite, Into the Woods.
It has been cast and has been in rehearsals since September 2007.
It premiered -LRB- to great success -RRB- on December 6th, 2007.
As of December 14th, 2007, Gillander has begun talks concerning a Spring 2008 production.
A meeting is to be held on December 19th to discuss possible shows and evaluate the feasibility of another musical production -LRB- considering the high cost of Into the Woods -RRB-.
One of the design goals of the Spring Framework is to easily integrate with existing J2EE standards and vendor tools.

The Albino Squirrel Preservation Society was founded at the University of Texas at Austin in 2001, and its sister chapter at University of North Texas petitioned for an election to name their albino squirrel as the university 's secondary mascot -LRB- the election narrowly failed -RRB-.
R&B singer-songwriter Kelis mentions St. Ides in the song `` Flash Back '', from her 2001 album ` Wanderland', as she sings, `` And that 's when you walked by/Holding your St. Ides ''.
Highway 28 which crosses Interstate 44 at exit 163 at the eastern edge of St. Robert, runs north through Dixon, and then runs north out of the county.
In July 2003, his family filed a CA$ 250,000 lawsuit against the families of four of his schoolmates.
The lawsuit stated, in part, that he '' ` had to endure, and still endures today, harassment and derision from his high-school mates and the public at large.' '' and, he '' ` will be under psychiatric care for an indefinite amount of time.' ''.
Legal proceedings against one family were quickly dropped.
`` High school was time of torment ''.
The lawsuit had been scheduled to begin trial on April 10, 2006 ; but on April 7, the boy and his parents reached an out-of-court settlement with the defendants.
'' ` Star Wars Kid' cuts a deal with his tormentors ''.
Previous court proceedings had included discussions about whether the defendants had liability insurance.
In 2006 the boy finally came to terms with his classmates and received CA$ 351,000 in a lawsuit between three of the four classmates.
` NB' : this glyph is not actually five-pointed in some fonts.
The ` Brood War' expansion released by Blizzard in 1998 provided several new units and a new campaign for each race, continuing the original ` StarCraft' storyline and changing the gameplay.
` Brood War' allowed the production of units, such as the dark templar, which ` StarCraft' had only made available at the beginning of certain single-player missions, and created exclusive unit upgrades for all three species.

The term ` adult stem cell' refers to any cell which is found in a developed organism that has two properties : the ability to divide and create another cell like itself and also divide and create a cell more differentiated than itself.
Also known as ` somatic' -LRB- from Greek µ, `` of the body '' -RRB- stem cells and ` germline' -LRB- giving rise to gametes -RRB- stem cells, they can be found in children, as well as adults.
Pluripotent adult stem cells are rare and generally small in number but can be found in a number of tissues including umbilical cord blood.
Bartlett has been President and Chief Executive Officer of The Financial Services Roundtable since June 1999.
The Stratford Eagles Composite Squadron, Civil Air Patrol, is based in Stratford, at the Sikorsky Memorial Airport.
Crossrail, a new rail line through central London connecting Heathrow Airport and Maidenhead in the west, will serve both Stratford and Maryland stations.
The fact that the covariant derivatives anticommute with the supercharges means the supersymmetry transformation of a covariant derivative of a superfield is equal to the covariant derivative of the same supersymmetry transformation of the same superfield.
Thus, generalizing the covariant derivative in bosonic geometry which constructs tensors from tensors, the superspace covariant derivative constructs superfields from superfields.
The cannibalistic trait of the story goes back as far as the myth of Pelops.
The myth 's imagery of meat pies made from people is almost certainly an allusion to the finale of Shakespeare 's ` Titus Andronicus' and the original Roman tale on which it was based, the story of ` Tereus, Procne and Philomela' in Ovid 's Metamorphoses.
They point to the visible mutual animosity and breaches of collegiality notable between Christoph Blocher and Pascal Couchepin / Moritz Leuenberger, respectively.
One of the defining debates in the Club over the past 30 years has been Voluntary Student Unionism -LRB- VSU -RRB-.
As part of this he uses an example of cyclical structure in music, which was an idea drawn from Beethoven 's use of similar rhythmic structures or shapes in his Fifth Symphony, Holomon, 102. and the idea of musical `` cycles '', such as a `` song cycle ''.
Berlioz did not know of Mendelssohn 's Octet, which also uses this device.
You can find a longer version on the EU website.
It contains four movements played without interruption.
This `` inner symphony '' follows the same overall pattern as the Ninth Symphony as a whole.
The scheme is as follows :.
` Szczecin-Śmierdnica' is a municipal neighborhood of the Szczecin City, Poland situated on the right bank of Oder river, east of the Szczecin Old Town, and south-east of Szczecin-Dąbie.
is a Japanese manufacturer of plastic model kits, radio controlled cars, battery - and solar-powered educational models, sailboat models, acrylic and enamel model paints, and various modeling tools and supplies.
The company was founded by Yoshio Tamiya in Shizuoka, Japan in 1946.
` Energy development' is the ongoing effort to provide sustainable energy resources through knowledge, skills, and constructions.
When harnessing energy from primary energy sources and converting them into more convenient secondary energy forms, such as electrical energy and cleaner fuel, both emissions -LRB- reducing pollution -RRB- and quality -LRB- more efficient use -RRB- are important.
Andrews is certified in basic hypnosis and acupressure, and is involved in the study and use of herbs as an alternative path in health care.
He is active in the holistic healing field, focusing strongly on esoteric forms of healing with sound, music, and voice.
A self-described clairvoyant, Andrews works with past-life analysis, aura interpretation, dreams, numerology, and Tarot.

Under warm, wet harvest conditions non V-GURT grain can sprout, which lowers the quality of grain produced.
Those who agree with James' critique of the United States find much to praise.
Those who dislike his distaste for various aspects of American life criticize James as snobbish and unfair.
The Bounty 's logbook is shown with the title `` H.M.A.V. Bounty, her log '' on the front cover and on the first page before Bligh makes an entry dated 23 December 1787 recording the first day at sea.
The actual log, now in the State Library of New South Wales, has only ` Bounty 's Log' in Bligh 's hand on the spine and begins with ` Remarks at Deptford' describing preparations for the voyage with the first daily entry being the initial unsuccessful attempt to leave Spithead on 1 Dec. 1787.
The movie was adapted by Robert Gittler from the biography of Holly by John Goldrosen.
It was directed by Steve Rash.
The film premiered in New York City on 24 June 1954, and went into general release on July 28.
It cost an estimated $ 2 million to make and grossed $ 8.7 million in the United States.
For a limited time in 2004, General Mills offered a DVD of two episodes inside boxes of Total and Oatmeal Crisp.
` The Highwayman' finished its run after the Pilot film and nine episodes.
Whilst it achieved reasonable ratings, they were not high enough to justify the high cost of producing the episodes, with their many stunts and hi-tech props.
It also rather marked the end of an era, as television moved from the comic-book adventures of the 1980s, into the more politically correct programs of the 1990s.

Casey Bartholomew was born in 1969 in Orange County, California, and attended Fulton College.
He was the board operator for Laura Schlessinger 's show on KFI in Los Angeles, 1991-95, then for two years hosted a weekend KFI talk show with Scott Hasick.
The Scott and Casey show was also heard in the 2-7 pm time slot on New Jersey 101.5 from August 1999 to July 2002.
In the ensuing battle the Mekon 's ship was rammed by the HMS Trafalgar and boarded by British troops led by Dare who engaged the Mekon in personal combat before defeating him and leaving him near death.
` The Night the Animals Talked' was produced by Gamma Films of Italy, and was directed by animation veteran Shamus Culhane.
The story evolved from an MGM Records children 's recording written by writer and voiceover artist Peter Fernandez.
David Mason is the son of John Mason, leader of the NSW Liberal Party during the mid-1970s.
In the ` images', the death 's head on the moths' backs is not their natural pattern, but a superimposed miniature image of Salvador Dalí and Philippe Halsman 's ` In Voluptas Mors', which forms the image of a skull from naked bodies.
` The Unknown Soldier' -LRB- ` Tuntematon sotilas' -RRB- is a Finnish film directed by Edvin Laine and premiered in December 1955.
It is based on ` The Unknown Soldier', a novel by Väinö Linna.
The story is about the Continuation War between Finland and the Soviet Union as told from the viewpoint of ordinary Finnish soldiers.
The film was and remains the most successful movie ever in Finland ; about 2.8 million people, or more than half the Finnish population, saw it in theaters.
In 1985 Rauni Mollberg directed a new version of the film.
The planet 's slow rotation rate results in extreme weather, alternating between freezing cold `` nights '' -LRB- Patras -RRB- lasting up to six -LRB- Earth -RRB- months during which the sun never rises and steaming hot `` days '' -LRB- Bannks -RRB- during which the sun never sets for a similar number of months.
As details of this episode emerged, fans became divided in their views of what could be the final televised ` Star Trek' episode for the foreseeable future.
Advance criticisms -LRB- before the episode was actually released -RRB- ranged from displeasure over the fact the final episode would be written by the unpopular Berman and Braga to outrage over the decision to tie the series finale into ` Star Trek : The Next Generation'.
Ken Thompson publishes `` Reflections on Trusting Trust `` Communication of the ACM, Vol. 27, No. 8, August 1984, pp. 761-763., a theoretical paper which describes how a virus can be inserted into a program 's object code, when the virus itself can not be found in the source code.
One documented origin of the phrase is as an athletics analogy that originated in the early 19th century.
Other suggested origins are the center line in boxing which boxers were instructed to toe at the start of each round, or the lines created by deck planks on ships which naval crews used to `` fall in line ''.
Thus the cry to `` toe the line ! '' was echoed to return order to the House and to quell a potential mortal conflict.
The term turnpike refers to the pike or long stick that was held across the road, and only raised or turned aside when the traveller paid the toll.
The Rapanui people of Easter island used Totora reeds - locally known as ` nga'atu' - for thatching and to make ` pora' swimming aids.
These are used for recreation, and were formerly employed by ` hopu' -LRB- clan champions -RRB- to reach offshore Motu Nui in the ` tangata manu' -LRB- `` bird-man '' -RRB- competition.
How the plant arrived on the island is not clear ; it might have brought there by drifting plants or by birds bearing seeds, but neither do the ocean currents run in a way that makes the former likely, nor are sedge seeds normally dispersed by birds.
As living Totora plants were used by the Incas for thatching the roofs of their sea-going vessel, an introduction by means of visiting Inca ships would be possible.
Lake sediment studies, while somewhat ambiguous, suggest that '' ... there is no proof of the presence of totora on Easter Island before the 14th century. '' and are compatible with an introduction around 1480.
Tralee has a town council with twelve members.
The new services are carried on phone lines -LRB- or over fiber to the customer 's premises -RRB-, and are enabled by AT&T 's initiative to push fiber-optic lines closer to customers' premises.
U-verse itself is a laconic colloquialism for `` universe '', designed to convey the scope the service will encapsulate as well as project an emphasis on the customer -LRB- `` you '' -RRB-.
The conversation among proponents also often disregards macroeconomic factors, such as incentives for American companies to produce in other nations, which offer access to the other 3 of global demand and an estimated 97 % of global fossil fuel reserves.
` USS ` Chivo' -LRB- SS-341 -RRB-', a ` Balao' - class submarine, was a ship of the United States Navy named for the chivo or big-scaled goatfish ` Pseudopenaeus grandisquamis', a fish inhabiting the Pacific Ocean between Panama and Mexico.
Commander Henry G. Munson relieved Commander Laughon as commanding officer of ` Rasher'.
` Rasher 's fifth patrol was spent largely with in the South China Sea west of Luzon.
The destroyer operated out of Newport and New York until mid-July.
She was among the destroyers which escorted out to sea on 8 July when Secretary of the Navy Josephus Daniels embarked in the battleship to meet off New York harbor and to welcome President Woodrow Wilson as he returned home from the peace negotiations in Europe.
` Udavum Karangal' is a philanthropic organization based out of Chennai, India.
This organization does service taking care of orphans and other needy people helping them in all forms of development.
The military observers work in multi-national teams, so that any observations will always be confirmed by at least two observers from different nations, as a measure to ensure impartiality.
On December 27, 2008, South Korea announced plans to start fingerprinting and photographing foreigners in 2010.
Engaging in such policies today, under the ICC Statute, could be grounds for prosecution.
The International Criminal Court investigated all allegations for war crimes and crimes against humanity and found that all such claims were without merit except those already being prosecuted by national authorities.
Not one member of the United Nations has brought such claims to the Security Council for review and not one member of the International Criminal Court has taken them seriously enough to bring them before the ICC.
If any actual evidence of crimes is ever discovered, the ICC can and likely will reopen its investigation.
Representative James S. Sherman of New York received the vice presidential nomination.
The ` University of Louisiana at Monroe', or ` ULM', is a coeducational public university located in Monroe, Louisiana, USA, and is a part of the University of Louisiana System.
The ` Upper West Side' is a neighborhood of the borough of Manhattan in New York City that lies between Central Park and the Hudson River above West 59th Street.
This letter is not used in the Polish alphabet, along with Q and X..
In loan words the letter W -LRB- pronounced -RRB- is used instead.
The liberation of the Philippines from Japanese rule on 1946 resulted in the division of Valenzuela into two towns.
The town stands on the west flank of the Argonne massif, mid-way between Verdun and Paris, near Vouziers.
The total number of satellites built was 12 - six of the Vela Hotel design, and six of the Advanced Vela design.
The Vela Hotel series was to detect nuclear initiations in space, while the Advanced Vela series was to detect not only nuclear explosions in space but also in the atmosphere.
In the summer of 2003, the group joined with the `` Pastors For Peace '' project of the Interreligious Foundation for Community Organization -LRB- IFCO -RRB- and organized a group travelling to Cuba, to highlight their objection to the U.S. restrictions on travel to Cuba.
Due to its action on both the serotoninergic and adrenergic systems, Venlafaxine is also used as a treatment to reduce episodes of cataplexy, a form of muscle weakness, in patients with the sleep disorder narcolepsy.
` Venner for altid', ` Friends Forever' in English -LRB- literally ` Friends for All Time' -RRB- is a Danish film produced in 1986 and released at the beginning of 1987.
Volvo IT has around 5000 employees and offices in Göteborg, Ghent, Lyon, Greensboro and Kuala Lumpur.
Orthogonal projections are noncommutative analogues of indicator functions in ` L' & infin ;-LRB- ` R' -RRB-.
The BBC television programme Autumnwatch was broadcast live from Martin Mere in 2006 and 2007.
Shah attempted to escape from United States custody and failed.
In 1971, the Museum of Modern Art staged a further exhibition of his work entitled simply ` Walker Evans'.
In ancient times, dogs, usually large ancient mastiff and rottweiler-type breeds, would be strapped with armor and spiked collars, and sent into battle to attack the enemy.

This form of language is similar to that used in other initiatives such as Lyndon B. Johnson 's `` war on poverty '' and George W. Bush 's `` War on Terrorism ''.
The word `` war '' is used to invoke a state of emergency, although the target of the war is n't anything against which standard military tactics are effective.
The Quaboag River runs through the center of town.
Since the Middle Age, the kings of Denmark and Denmark -- Norway carried the titles ` King of the Wends and Goths'.
The use of both titles was discontinued in 1972.
In late 2007, Byers announced to the press that he had changed his opinion, and that he now believes that the WM3 are innocent.
` Wetwang' is a Yorkshire Wolds village and civil parish in the East Riding of Yorkshire, England.
It is situated west of Driffield on the A166 road.
According to the 2001 UK census, Wetwang parish had a population of 672.
` Whirlywirld' was an Australian post punk band led by Ollie Olsen in the late 1970s and early 1980s, and the first of his musical collaborations with drummer John Murphy.
They played in Melbourne and Sydney and were supporters of the Melbourne little band scene.
allegorical figures of supreme evil mentioned in the Book of Revelation in the Bible.
She is associated with the Antichrist and the Beast of Revelation by connection with the kingdom with seven heads and ten horns, and Her apocalyptic downfall is prophesied at the hands of the beast with seven heads and ten horns.
The combination of Wicca with ` no harm to others' and ` do what thou wilt' made its first known appearance in ` The Old Laws' by Gerald Gardner, 1953.
A similar phrase, ` Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law', appears in Aleister Crowley 's works by 1904, in The Book of the Law -LRB- though as used by Crowley it is half of a statement and response, the response being `` Love is the Law, love under Will '' -RRB-.
`` Crowley very likely stole this line from Francois Rabelais, who wrote it in 1534, or St. Augustine, who gave a similar edict. ''.
King Paulsol, a character in Pierre Louys', ` Les aventures du roi Pausole' -LRB- The Adventures of King Pausole -RRB-, had a similar motto of ` Do what you like as long as you harm no one.'.
`` Solitary Witch : The Ultimate Book of Shadows for the New Generation. ''.
On arriving in London in 1841, he immediately set up a manufacturing plant at Rotherhithe, and was soon making a cement that caused a sensation among users in London.
Although this product, referred to today as `` modern '' Portland cement, was entirely different mineralogically from that of his father, William did not take out a patent, or give it a new name.
He therefore decided to claim that the product was covered by his father 's patent, and clothed the details of his methods in secrecy.
Famously, he would emerge from his office when each newly-loaded kiln was ready for firing, and scatter in handfuls of brightly-coloured crystals over the rawmix, in order to give the impression that the special properties of his product were the result of an unidentified `` magic ingredient ''.
This strategy kept competition at bay for two years, after which I C Johnson succeeded in matching the product at J B White & Co 's nearby Swanscombe plant.
See the link for Johnson 's own account of this.
Water from the river Oder flows into the Szczecin Lagoon.
From there it flows through the Peene -LRB- to the west of Usedom -RRB-, Świna and Dziwna into the Bay of Pomerania, which is part of the Baltic Sea.
Woodcliff Lake lacks its own public library, however it offers its residents reimbursement if they get a library membership from a neighboring town.
The ubiquitous presence of such estrogenic substances is a significant health concern, both individually and for a population.
PMID 1580878, who state : `` The results do not support with certainty the view that environmental estrogens contribute to an increase in male reproductive disorders ''.
Agencies such as the United States Environmental Protection Agency and the World Health Organization International Program on Chemical Safety are charged to address these issues.
In 1919, YMCA began their chain around the country.
Rabbi Yaakov Yitzchak Ruderman, the son-in-law of Rabbi Sheftel Kramer founded the yeshiva in 1933 with six students.
He had a vision, to build a yeshiva in the European style on American soil.
On July 9, President Michelle Bachelet of Chile said she would nominate Betancourt for a Nobel Prize.
Sarkozy announced that she would receive the Legion of Honor at the Bastille Day celebrations.
