Induction of NF-KB during monocyte differentiation by HIV type 1 infection.
The production of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- progeny was followed in the U937 promonocytic cell line after stimulation either with retinoic acid or PMA, and in purified human monocytes and macrophages.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays and Southwestern blotting experiments were used to detect the binding of cellular transactivation factor NF-KB to the double repeat-KB enhancer sequence located in the long terminal repeat.
PMA treatment, and not retinoic acid treatment of the U937 cells acts in inducing NF-KB expression in the nuclei.
In nuclear extracts from monocytes or macrophages, induction of NF-KB occurred only if the cells were previously infected with HIV-1.
Positive and negative regulation of immunoglobulin gene expression by a novel B-cell-specific enhancer element.
A new B-cell-specific enhancer element has been identified 3' of E4 and the octamerlike motifs in the human immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene enhancer.
Gel mobility shift assays using a synthetic E6 motif detected a B-cell-specific complex in addition to a ubiquitous band found also in T cells and HeLa cells.
Furthermore, a mutant E6 motif lost both in vitro binding activity and in vivo enhancer activity.
In striking contrast to the mouse Ig heavy-chain enhancer, in which the octamer motif acts as a B-cell-specific enhancer element, the human enhancer contains an octamerlike sequence with one base substitution which bound octamer-binding proteins with only very low affinity and showed no enhancer activity of its own.
Moreover, simian virus 40 enhancer activity was blocked by the MnlI-AluI fragment in HeLa cells but not in B cells.
The NF kappa B independent cis-acting sequences in HIV-1 LTR responsive to T-cell activation.
The rate of transcription initiation directed by the long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- of HIV-1 increases in response to mitogenic stimuli of T cells.
The rate of LTR-directed gene expression increased in response to treatment with either a phorbol ester or tumor necrosis factor alpha if either the NFAT-1 or NF kappa B binding sites were deleted, but failed to respond to these mitogenic stimuli if both sequences were absent.
The HIV-1 mutant virus containing both NF kappa B and NFAT-1 deletion was able to replicate although at a much decreased growth rate, while the deletion of NFAT-1 alone increased the viral growth rate in Jurkat cells.
Neither deletion of NF kappa B nor deletion of NFAT-1 decreased activation of viral replication by phorbol ester.
Specific depletion of the B-cell population induced by aberrant expression of human interferon regulatory factor 1 gene in transgenic mice.
Interferons -LRB- IFNs -RRB- are well known both as antiviral proteins and as potent regulators of cell growth and differentiation.
In fact, IFNs inhibit growth of various normal and transformed cell types.
Previously, a nuclear factor, IRF-1 -LRB- interferon regulatory factor 1 -RRB-, which binds to type I IFN and some IFN-inducible gene promoters, was identified and cloned.
In this study, we generated transgenic mice carrying the human IRF-1 gene linked to the human immunoglobulin heavy-chain enhancer.
In the transgenic mice, all the lymphoid tissues examined showed a dramatic reduction in the number of B lymphocytes -LRB- B cells -RRB-.
In fact, transgenic bone marrow cells cocultured with a bone marrow-derived stromal cell line revealed an altered B-cell maturation pattern.
Identification and cloning of TCF-1, a T lymphocyte-specific transcription factor containing a sequence-specific HMG box.
CD3-epsilon expression is controlled by a downstream T lymphocyte-specific enhancer element.
We report the identification of a T cell-specific transcription factor, TCF-1, binding to this element.
The multimerized recognition motif of TCF-1 constituted a T cell-specific enhancer.
Subsequent cloning of TCF-1 identified three splice alternatives.
TCF-1 mRNA was expressed uniquely in T lymphocytes.
Nuclear factor kappa B activates proenkephalin transcription in T lymphocytes.
Upon activation, T lymphocytes accumulate high levels of the neuropeptide enkephalin which correlate with high levels of proenkephalin mRNA in the cells.
Here we investigated the transcriptional basis for these changes.
The proenkephalin promoter contains a sequence GGGGACGTCCCC, named B2, which is similar to the kappa B sequence GGGGACTTTCC, the binding site of the transcription factor nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappa B..
Activation of T lymphocytes induces an NF-kappa B-like binding activity to the B2 site, concomitant with activation of the proenkephalin promoter.
Mutations at the B2 site abolish this transcriptional activation.
The purified homodimer -LRB- two p50s -RRB- of the DNA-binding subunit of NF-kappa B binds the B2 site of proenkephalin relatively better than does the heterotetramer -LRB- two p65s plus two p50s -RRB- form of the factor.
Expression of c-jun, jun B and jun D proto-oncogenes in human peripheral-blood granulocytes.
We have found that purified human peripheral-blood granulocytes express constitutively significant levels of proto-oncogenes c-jun, jun B and jun D mRNA.
Upon functional activation of granulocytes by 4 beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB-, the levels of c-jun, jun B and jun D transcripts were increased.
The three jun genes showed a similar time course in their induction by PMA, maximal mRNA levels being reached after 60 min of induction.
Platelet-activating factor induces phospholipid turnover, calcium flux, arachidonic acid liberation, eicosanoid generation, and oncogene expression in a human B cell line.
Platelet-activating factor is a potent mediator of the inflammatory response.
Studies of the actions of platelet-activating factor have centered mainly around neutrophils, monocytes, and platelets.
In this report we begin to uncover the influence of platelet-activating factor on B lymphocytes.
Employing the EBV-transformed human B cell line SKW6 .4, we demonstrate that platelet-activating factor significantly alters membrane phospholipid metabolism indicated by the incorporation of 32P into phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylinositol, and phosphatidic acid but not significantly into phosphatidylethanolamine at concentrations ranging from 10 -LRB- -9 -RRB- to 10 -LRB- -6 -RRB- M..
The inactive precursor, lyso-platelet-activating factor, at a concentration as high as 10 -LRB- -7 -RRB- M had no effect on any of the membrane phospholipids.
We also show that platelet-activating factor from 10 -LRB- -12 -RRB- to 10 -LRB- -6 -RRB- M induced rapid and significant elevation in intracellular calcium levels, whereas lyso-platelet-activating factor was again ineffective.
We further demonstrate the impact of platelet-activating factor binding to B cells by measuring platelet-activating factor induced arachidonic acid release and 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid production.
Moreover, platelet-activating factor was capable of inducing transcription of the nuclear proto-oncogenes c-fos and c-jun.
In summary, platelet-activating factor is shown here to have a direct and profound effect on a pure B cell line.
A novel HIV-1 isolate containing alterations affecting the NF-kappa B element.
Three molecular clones of HIV-1, derived from a single isolate -LRB- AL1 -RRB-, exhibited distinct replicative and cytopathic properties during propagation in a human T cell line.
The phenotypic differences observed were attributable, in large part, to changes affecting the viral LTR.
These changes in the enhancer element were identified in the original AL1 virus stock.
Subcloning of the variant NF-kappa B segments into LTR-driven CAT expression vectors confirmed a correlation between promoter activity and replicative/cytopathic capacity.
1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 receptor RNA : expression in hematopoietic cells.
1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 -LSB- 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 -RSB- induces differentiation and inhibits proliferation of myeloid leukemic cells from various lines and patients ;.
Little is known of expression of 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptor RNA in hematopoietic cells.
We examined the expression and modulation of expression of 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptor RNA in various proliferating and nonproliferating hematopoietic cells.
Constitutive expression of 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptor RNA was detected in various kinds of hematopoietic cells, including macrophages and activated T lymphocytes, as well as in cell lines KG-1 -LRB- myeloblasts -RRB-, HL-60 -LRB- promyelocytes -RRB-, ML-3 -LRB- myelomonoblasts -RRB-, U937, THP-1 -LRB- monoblasts -RRB-, K562 -LRB- erythroblasts -RRB-, and S-LB1 -LRB- HTLV-1-transfected T lymphocytes -RRB-.
Receptor transcripts were 4.6 kilobases -LRB- kb -RRB-, and no variant sizes were observed.
All cell lines examined in this group also expressed 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptors.
HL-60 cells were cultured with 10 -LRB- -7 -RRB- mol/L 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 for 24 to 72 hours, and levels of expression of 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptor and its RNA were examined.
Levels of RNA coding for the receptor were not modulated by exposure to high levels of ligand.
Levels of occupied 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptor protein increased in these HL-60 cells ; but the total number of 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptors decreased about 50 % at 24 hours and returned toward normal at 72 hours.
Steady-state levels of 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptor RNA were not affected by terminal differentiation of HL-60 toward either granulocytes or macrophages.
Nondividing macrophages from normal individuals also expressed 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptor RNA.
In contrast, nondividing peripheral blood lymphocytes from normal individuals did not express 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptor RNA ;.
with stimulation of proliferation of these cells, accumulation of 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptor RNA increased markedly.
Half-life -LRB- t1/2 -RRB- of 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptor RNA in T lymphocytes was short -LRB- 1 hour -RRB- as determined by measuring decay of the message after addition of actinomycin D..
Consistent with this short t1/2, accumulation of 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptor RNA increased in cells as their protein synthesis was inhibited.
Further studies are required to understand the physiologic role of 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptors in myeloid cells and proliferating T lymphocytes.
Kappa B binding proteins are constitutively expressed in an IL-2 autocrine human T cell line.
The IL-2 and the IL-2-R alpha genes are both expressed transiently in normal T lymphocytes after Ag or mitogen activation.
In contrast, the human T cell line, IARC 301, expresses these two genes constitutively and we have previously demonstrated that its growth depends on the autocrine production of this T cell growth factor and high affinity IL-2R.
To dissect the molecular basis for the unusual persistent expression of the IL-2 and IL-2-R alpha genes in these IARC 301 T cells, we have analyzed the interactions of constitutively expressed nuclear proteins with the 5' flanking regions of the IL-2 and IL-2-R alpha genes using both DNase I footprinting and gel retardation techniques.
We have found that a region in both genes -LRB- -276 to -250 for IL-2-R alpha and -203 to -183 for IL-2 -RRB-, which corresponds to a kappa B enhancer element, is specifically protected by nuclear proteins from IARC 301.
In agreement with this finding, both the IL-2 and IL-2-R alpha promoters are active in transient transfection assays in IARC 301 cells.
In contrast, mutation of the kappa B enhancer results in markedly attenuated activities of both promoters.
Two proteins binding the kappa B sequence, NF-kappa B and KBF1, are constitutively expressed in IARC 301 nuclei and induced by PMA and PHA in Jurkat.
The functional domains of the murine Thy-1 gene promoter.
The Thy-1 gene promoter resembles a `` housekeeping '' promoter in that it is located within a methylation-free island, lacks a canonical TATA box, and displays heterogeneity in the 5' - end termini of the mRNA.
Using transgenic mice, we show that this promoter does not confer any tissue specificity and is active only in a position-dependent manner.
It can only be activated in a tissue-specific manner by elements that lie downstream of the initiation site.
We have analyzed the functional domains of the minimal Thy-1 promoter and show that the dominant promoter elements consist of multiple binding sites for the transcription factor Sp1, an inverted CCAAT box, and sequences proximal to the transcription start site.
DNase I and gel mobility shift assays show the binding of a number of nuclear factors to these elements, including Sp1 and CP1.
Our results show that the structure of this promoter only permits productive interactions of the two transcription factors Sp1 and CP1 with the basal transcription machinery in the presence of enhancer sequences.
Comparison of constitutive and inducible transcriptional enhancement mediated by kappa B-related sequences : modulation of activity in B cells by human T-cell leukemia virus type I tax gene.
The kappa B sequence -LRB- GGGACTTTCC -RRB- binds a factor, NF-kappa B, that is constitutively found in its functional, DNA binding form only in B lymphocytes.
A factor with apparently indistinguishable sequence specificity can be induced in many other cell types, where it is used to regulate inducible gene expression.
For example, kappa B-related sequences have been shown to be important for the transcription of a few inducible genes, such as the interleukin 2 receptor alpha-chain gene and the beta-interferon gene.
We have investigated the constitutive and inducible transcriptional activity mediated by five kappa B-related sequence elements in two different cell types.
We show that in S194 plasma cells the activity of each element correlates well with the relative affinity of B-cell-derived NF-kappa B for that element.
This leads to significantly lower transcription enhancement by sites derived from the interleukin 2 receptor or T-cell receptor genes in S194 cells.
However, in either EL-4 -LRB- T -RRB- cells or S194 cells, both lower-affinity sites can be significantly induced by the tax gene product of human T-cell leukemia virus type I, showing that NF-kappa B activity can be modulated even in a B-cell line that constitutively expresses this factor.
A DNA probe that spanned a domain conserved among the proto-oncogene c-rel, the Drosophila morphogen dorsal, and the p50 DNA binding subunit of NF-kappa B was generated from Jurkat T cell complementary DNA with the polymerase chain reaction -LRB- PCR -RRB- and degenerate oligonucleotides.
This probe was used to identify a rel-related complementary DNA that hybridized to a 2.6-kilobase messenger RNA present in human T and B lymphocytes.
In vitro transcription and translation of the complementary DNA resulted in the synthesis of a protein with an apparent molecular size of 65 kilodaltons -LRB- kD -RRB-.
The translated protein showed weak DNA binding with a specificity for the kappa B binding motif.
This protein-DNA complex comigrated with the complex obtained with the purified human p65 NF-kappa B subunit and binding was inhibited by I kappa B-alpha and - beta proteins.
In addition, the 65-kD protein associated with the p50 subunit of NF-kappa B and the kappa B probe to form a complex with the same electrophoretic mobility as the NF-kappa B-DNA complex.
Lymphocyte glucocorticoid receptor number in posttraumatic stress disorder.
METHOD : They measured the number of lymphocyte cytosolic glucocorticoid receptors and plasma cortisol concentrations in 15 consecutively admitted male combat Vietnam veterans with PTSD and in a normal comparison group of 11 subjects.
RESULTS : Both the patients and the normal comparison subjects showed a morning-to-afternoon decline in glucocorticoid receptor concentrations, paralleling the normal diurnal decline in cortisol levels.
The number of glucocorticoid receptors was 63 % greater in the morning and 26 % greater in the afternoon in the patients with PTSD than in the normal subjects.
No group differences in cortisol levels were observed, nor were glucocorticoid receptor number and cortisol levels correlated.
The number of morning glucocorticoid receptors was positively correlated with symptoms of PTSD and anxiety.
CONCLUSIONS : These results provide further evidence for a dysregulation of the HPA axis in PTSD.
The finding that patients with PTSD had a substantially greater number of lymphocyte glucocorticoid receptors than normal comparison subjects is consistent with the authors' previous observations of low 24-hour urinary cortisol excretion in subjects with PTSD.
Furthermore, the receptor changes observed are opposite of those reported in major depressive disorder.
Immune response of peripheral blood mononuclear cells to HBx-antigen of hepatitis B virus.
The hepatitis B virus genome encodes a transcriptional transactivator protein designated HBxAg.
Using recombinant HBxAg protein, we found HBxAg-specific stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells in patients with acute hepatitis B virus infection -LRB- 6 of 6 -RRB- and chronic hepatitis B virus infection -LRB- 6 of 17 -RRB- but not in healthy individuals.
With HBxAg-specific synthetic polypeptides, several T-cell epitopes were identified.
Most were located in the carboxyterminal half of the HBxAg protein.
Five T-cell clones specific for a T-cell epitope located at the carboxyterminal region of HBxAg were established and found to belong to the CD2/CD4-positive, CD8-negative subtype.
These data establish for the first time HBxAg as an antigen in the cellular immune response.
A thymus-specific member of the HMG protein family regulates the human T cell receptor C alpha enhancer.
The human T cell-specific transcription factor TCF-1 alpha plays a key role in the tissue-specific activation of the T cell receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- C alpha enhancer and binds to pyrimidine-rich elements -LRB- 5' - PyCTTTG-3' -RRB- present in a variety of other T cell-specific control regions.
Using amino acid sequence information derived from the DNA affinity-purified protein, we have now isolated cDNA clones encoding TCF-1 alpha.
The TCF-1 alpha cDNA contains a single 68-amino-acid domain that is homologous to a region conserved among high-mobility group -LRB- HMG -RRB- and nonhistone chromosomal proteins.
Northern blot experiments demonstrate further that TCF-1 alpha mRNA is highly tissue specific, found primarily in the thymus or T cell lines.
The immature CEM T cell line expresses relatively low levels of TCF-1 alpha mRNA, which are increased upon activation of these cells by phorbol esters.
Interestingly, the cloned TCF-1 alpha protein is a potent transcriptional activator of the human TCR alpha enhancer in nonlymphoid cell lines, whereas the activity of the endogenous protein in T cell lines is strongly dependent on an additional T cell-specific protein that interacts with the core enhancer.
TCF-1 alpha is currently unique among the newly emerging family of DNA-binding regulatory proteins that share the HMG motif in that it is a highly tissue-specific RNA polymerase II transcription factor.
Multiple Oct2 isoforms are generated by alternative splicing.
The interaction of the Oct2 transcription factor with the cognate octamer motif ATGCAAAT is a critical determinant of the lymphoid-specific expression of immunoglobulin genes.
Ectopic expression of cloned Oct2 cDNA was shown to be sufficient to reconstitute at least some aspects of this regulation in non-lymphoid cells.
We describe the isolation and characterization of multiple cDNAs encoding mouse Oct2 from a mature B-cell line and we show that a variety of isoforms of this transcription factor is generated from a single gene by an alternative splicing mechanism.
All the isoforms retain the previously characterized POU-domain and are therefore able to bind to the octamer motif.
Different amounts of the various isoforms are present within the same B-cell regardless of the developmental stage of B-cell differentiation and at least some of the isoforms are conserved between mouse and humans.
In cotransfection experiments we show that all the isoforms are able to activate an octamer containing promoter element in fibroblasts revealing an unexpected functional redundancy.
A study on the circadian rhythm of glucocorticoid receptor.
Circadian rhythm in glucocorticoid receptor -LRB- GR -RRB- was studied in the rat liver and human peripheral leukocytes.
For rats exposed to a natural environmental photic cycle or a 12L :12 D artificial light regime, peak values of hepatic GR were detected between 23:00 and 02:00 h..
Except for a 4-hour advancement of the peak, a similar circadian rhythm of hepatic GR was detected in rats reared under a reversed lighting regimen -LRB- 12D :12 L ; lights on between 18:30 and 06:30 h -RRB-.
In human leukocytes, the peak value of GR was found to parallel that of plasma cortisol with high and low values detected at 04:00 -08:00 h and 23:00 -24:00 h, respectively.
For apoplexic patients with lesions localized to the base of the brain as indicated by computerized tomography, the diurnal variation of GR was abolished.
Conversely, diurnal rhythmicity persisted in apoplexy patients whose lesions were in the cerebral cortex.
Processing of the precursor of NF-kappa B by the HIV-1 protease during acute infection.
Transcription of the human immunodeficiency virus type-1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- genome is regulated in part by cellular factors and is stimulated by activation of latently infected T cells.
T-cell activation also correlates with the induction of the factor NF-kappa B which binds to two adjacent sites in the HIV-1 long terminal repeat.
This factor consists of two DNA-binding subunits of relative molecular mass 50,000 -LRB- 50K -RRB- associated with two 65K subunits.
It is located in the nucleus in mature B cells, but is present in other cell types as an inactive cytoplasmic complex.
External stimuli, including those that activate T cells, result in nuclear translocation of active NF-kappa B..
The cloning of the complementary DNA for the 50K subunit helped to identify an exclusively cytoplasmic 105K precursor -LRB- p105 -RRB- -LRB- V.B., P.K. and A.I., manuscript submitted -RRB-.
Because HIV-1 requires active NF-kappa B for efficient transcription, we tested the effect of HIV-1 infection on the processing of the human 105K precursor.
We show here that the HIV-1 protease can process p105 and increases levels of active nuclear NF-kappa B complex.
Murine and human T-lymphocyte GATA-3 factors mediate transcription through a cis-regulatory element within the human T-cell receptor delta gene enhancer.
A family of transcriptional activators has recently been identified in chickens ;.
these transcriptional activators recognize a common consensus motif -LRB- WGATAR -RRB- through a conserved C4 zinc finger DNA-binding domain.
One of the members of this multigene family, cGATA-3, is most abundantly expressed in the T-lymphocyte cell lineage.
Analysis of human and murine GATA-3 factors shows a striking degree of amino acid sequence identity and similar patterns of tissue specificity of expression in these three organisms.
The murine and human factors are abundantly expressed in a variety of human and murine T-cell lines and can activate transcription through a tissue-specific GATA-binding site identified within the human T-cell receptor delta gene enhancer.
Cloning of murine TCF-1, a T cell-specific transcription factor interacting with functional motifs in the CD3-epsilon and T cell receptor alpha enhancers.
CD3-epsilon gene expression is confined to the T cell lineage.
We have recently identified and cloned a human transcription factor, TCF-1, that binds to a functional element in the T lymphocyte-specific enhancer of CD3-epsilon.
In a panel of human cell lines, TCF-1 expression was restricted to T lineage cells.
TCF-1 belonged to a novel family of genes that contain the so-called high mobility group 1 -LRB- HMG -RRB- box.
Here we report the cloning of murine TCF-1.
Two splice alternatives were identified that were not previously observed in human TCF-1.
Murine and human TCF-1 displayed a 95.5 % overall amino acid homology.
Recombinant murine and human TCF-1 recognized the same sequence motif in the CD3-epsilon enhancer as judged by gel retardation and methylation interference assays.
With the murine cDNA clones several aspects of TCF-1 were analyzed.
First, deletion analysis revealed that a region of TCF-1 containing the HMG box was sufficient for sequence-specific binding.
Second, by high stringency Northern blotting and in situ hybridization, TCF-1 expression was shown to be confined to the thymus and to the T cell areas of the spleen.
Third, TCF-1 bound specifically to a functional T cell-specific element in the T cell receptor alpha -LRB- TCR-alpha -RRB- enhancer.
Vitamin D receptor expression in human lymphocytes.
Signal requirements and characterization by western blots and DNA sequencing.
The signals controlling the expression of the receptor protein for 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 in normal human lymphocytes and the relationship of this protein to the classical vitamin D receptor were examined.
Lymphocytes activated with the OKT3 antibody to the T-cell antigen receptor expressed fewer binding sites as compared to lymphocytes that were activated by the polyclonal activator phytohemagglutinin -LRB- PHA -RRB-.
However, combination of OKT3 and phorbol myristate acetate produced a concentration of binding sites similar to the PHA-activated cells.
The receptor from OKT3 and OKT3 + phorbol myristate acetate-activated lymphocytes exhibited decreased binding to DNA-cellulose compared to PHA-activated lymphocytes.
In lymphocytes activated either by PHA or OKT3 -LRB- but not in resting cells -RRB-, a 50-kDa species cross-reacting with a monoclonal antibody against the intestinal vitamin D receptor was detected.
Finally, RNA from activated lymphocytes was amplified by polymerase chain reaction using oligonucleotide primers flanking the 196 base pair long region encoding the DNA-binding domain of the human intestinal receptor.
The amplified product showed an identical nucleotide sequence to the DNA-binding domain of the human intestinal receptor.
Role for the Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen 2 in viral promoter switching during initial stages of infection.
During latent Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- infection of human B lymphocytes, six viral nuclear antigen -LRB- EBNAs -RRB- are expressed from long primary transcripts by means of alternative splicing and alternative polyadenylylation sites.
These transcripts initiate from one of two promoters, Cp or Wp, that function in a mutually exclusive fashion.
Wp is exclusively utilized during the initial stages of infection of primary B lymphocytes, followed by a switch to Cp usage.
These studies have been extended to show that -LRB- i -RRB- a mutant EBV strain lacking the gene encoding EBNA 2 fails to switch from Wp to Cp usage in primary B lymphocytes, although the virus contains a functional Cp ; -LRB- ii -RRB- a region from -429 to -245 base pairs upstream of Cp is essential for Cp activity in B lymphocytes, but only in the context of upstream and downstream sequences ; -LRB- iii -RRB- this region contains an EBNA 2-dependent enhancer ; and -LRB- iv -RRB- DNase I protection employing nuclear extracts from B and T lymphocytes revealed a B-cell-specific footprint in the region of the EBNA 2-dependent enhancer.
These results support a model for viral promoter switching during the initial stages of infection in which Wp activity leads to the expression of EBNA 2, followed by activation of Cp through the EBNA 2-dependent enhancer.
HIV enhancer activity perpetuated by NF-kappa B induction on infection of monocytes -LSB- see comments -RSB-.
Permissiveness to replication of human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- differs in T lymphocytes and macrophages.
In T cells, HIV transcription is poorly detected in vivo.
Cloned, normal T lymphocytes show very little, if any, basal activity of the HIV enhancer and low nuclear expression of NF-kappa B, a potent transcriptional activator of the HIV enhancer.
In contrast, fixed tissue macrophages express detectable HIV proteins, indicating permanent virus transcription.
However, the U937 monocytic cell line, which is fully permissive to HIV replication, is known to express only low levels of nuclear NF-kappa B..
We show here that chronic HIV infection results in both induction of a nuclear factor with antigenic properties indistinguishable from those of NF-kappa B and permanently increased HIV enhancer activity.
Tissue-specific expression of the platelet GPIIb gene.
One of the major objectives in the study of thrombogenesis is to determine the mechanisms by which a hematopoietic progenitor is activated and committed to the megakaryocytic lineage.
Recent development of primary cultures of human megakaryocytes and the molecular cloning of genes that are specific to this lineage offer the possibility of getting some insights into the genetic mechanisms that control megakaryocytopoiesis.
One gene of interest is the glycoprotein IIb -LRB- GPIIb -RRB- gene ;.
GPIIb, the alpha subunit of the platelet cytoadhesin GPIIb-IIIa, is produced in megakaryocytes at an early stage of the differentiation, whereas the other subunit of this complex, GPIIIa, is expressed in other cells.
For these reasons, the 5' - flanking region of the GPIIb gene was used to identify the regions that interact with DNA-binding nuclear factors.
A fragment extending from -643 to +33 is capable of controlling the tissue-specific expression of the CAT gene in transfection experiments.
Within this region, we have identified several sequences that are implicated in DNA protein interactions as shown in DNAse I footprints and gel mobility shift assays.
One region, centered at -54, is similar to a nuclear factor E1-binding site, and a region located at position -233 contains a CCAAT motif.
Two domains centered at positions -345 and -540, respectively, bind proteins that are present in megakaryocytic cells and nonrelated cells as well.
Finally, two other domains, located at positions -460 and -510, interact with proteins that are only present in megakaryocytic cells.
In addition, deletion of the region containing these two domains results in a significant decrease of the promoter activity.
Glucocorticoid receptor characteristics in monocytes of patients with corticosteroid-resistant bronchial asthma.
The mechanism of corticosteroid resistance in bronchial asthma has been studied by determining the rank order of potency for different corticosteroids in inhibiting the generation of a 3 kD molecule from peripheral blood monocytes isolated from corticosteroid-sensitive -LRB- CS -RRB- and corticosteroid-resistant -LRB- CR -RRB- asthmatic subjects, which augments leukotriene B4 -LRB- LTB4 -RRB- generation by human neutrophils -LRB- PMN -RRB- stimulated by calcium ionophore.
In addition, binding studies with -LRB- 3H -RRB- dexamethasone have been performed to determine the dissociation constant -LRB- Kd -RRB- and receptor numbers -LRB- Ro -RRB- in the monocytes of these two groups of subjects.
The concentration of corticosteroid producing 50 % inhibition -LRB- IC50 -RRB- was 600 nM, 70 nM, and 0.5 nM for hydrocortisone, methylprednisolone, and dexamethasone, respectively, in monocytes from CS individuals.
There was only weak inhibition of the generation of enhancing activity by the corticosteroids in the CR asthmatic individuals.
The dexamethasone Kd was 2.45 + / - 0.58 nM -LRB- mean + / - SEM, n = 6 -RRB- in the CS group and 1.6 + / - 0.35 nM -LRB- mean + / - SEM, n = 6 -RRB- in the CR group of patients -LRB- p = 0.14 -RRB-.
The Ro in the CS group was 3,605 + / - 984 binding sites per nucleus -LRB- mean + / - SEM, n = 6 -RRB- and 4,757 + / - 692 binding sites per nucleus -LRB- mean + / - SEM, n = 6 -RRB- in the CR group -LRB- p = 0.23 -RRB-.
Demonstration of estrogen and progesterone receptors as well as Ki-67 and p-145 antigens in single tumor cells from blood and pleural effusions using a slide assay.
We describe a slide assay that allows the demonstration of antigens localized in the nucleus from isolated white blood cells as well as from single tumor cells derived from malignant effusions.
With the antibodies Ki-67 and anti-p-145 an increased rate of nuclear and nucleolar staining resulted in cells from highly malignant lymphomas.
An almost identical reaction was obtained when tumor cells from malignant effusions were tested.
Cells isolated from the blood of patients with leukemic spread of lymphomas of low malignancy yielded a weak staining comparable to that of normal mesothelial cells from non-tumorous cavity fluids.
The detection of estrogen and progesterone receptors -LRB- ER and PR -RRB- localized in the cell nucleus can be achieved by the same assay.
The reaction is enhanced by incubation of the tumor cells for 30 min at 37 degrees C prior to fixation.
Pleural effusions from 20 patients with breast cancer were tested.
ER was positive in 13 and PR was positive in 12 of the 20 samples.
In 5 cases there was a divergent reaction with ER and PR antibody.
The hormone receptors of the primary tumor were known in 15 -LRB- ER -RRB- and 14 -LRB- PR -RRB- patients, respectively.
In each cohort there was only one case with a negative reaction of the primary tumor and a positive reaction with the isolated tumor cells from the pleural effusions.
Inhibition of protein phosphatases by okadaic acid induces AP1 in human T cells.
To examine the role of protein phosphatases in T cell activation, Jurkat cells were treated with okadaic acid, an inhibitor of type 1 and 2A phosphatases, and nuclear extracts were examined for the presence of AP1 as a measure of early T cell activation.
Okadaic acid was found to be a potent inducer of AP1.
In contrast to phorbol esters such as phorbol myristate acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB-, the induction of AP1 by okadaic acid occurs predominantly by transcriptional activation of the jun and fos family of proto-oncogenes.
Surprisingly, while the addition of phytohemagglutinin further enhanced the induction of AP1, the addition of PMA inhibited it.
Okadaic acid treatment was found to dramatically increase mRNA transcripts of the jun family of proto-oncogenes including c-jun, junD, and junB and to a lesser extent the fos family including c-fos and fra-1.
By comparison, PMA is a very inefficient inducer of the jun gene family in Jurkat cells.
Similar to its effect on the induction of AP1 by okadaic acid, PMA inhibits the induction of c-jun mRNA by okadaic acid.
Transfection of c-jun promoter constructs confirmed the marked difference between PMA and okadaic acid in inducing c-jun transcription.
Differentiation-associated expression of the Epstein-Barr virus BZLF1 transactivator protein in oral hairy leukoplakia.
The BZLF1 protein of Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- is a key immediate-early protein which has been shown to disrupt virus latency in EBV-infected B cells.
We have generated a monoclonal antibody, BZ1, to BZLF1 which reacts in immunohistology, immunoblotting, and immunoprecipitation and which recognizes both the active, dimeric form and the inactive, monomeric form of the protein.
Biopsies of oral hairy leukoplakia, an AIDS-associated lesion characterized by high-level EBV replication, were examined by immunohistochemistry using the BZ1 monoclonal antibody.
A differentiation-associated pattern of BZLF1 expression was observed, BZ1 reacting with nuclei of the upper spinous layer of the lesion.
Transforming growth factor-beta suppresses human B lymphocyte Ig production by inhibiting synthesis and the switch from the membrane form to the secreted form of Ig mRNA.
Transforming growth factor-beta -LRB- TGF-beta -RRB- inhibits B cell Ig secretion and reduces B cell membrane Ig expression.
The addition of TGF-beta to human B lymphocyte cultures stimulated with Staphylococcus aureus Cowan strain I and IL-2 completely inhibited B cell Ig secretion -LRB- greater than 90 % -RRB- and decreased B cell surface IgM, IgD, kappa L chain, and lambda L chain expression.
In contrast, TGF-beta had only minimal effects on two other B cell membrane proteins, HLA-DR and CD20.
Internal labeling with -LSB- 35S -RSB- methionine and immunoprecipitation with anti-IgM, anti-kappa, and anti-lambda antibodies revealed a striking reduction in kappa L chain in the presence of TGF-beta.
A less pronounced reduction in lambda L chain and microH chain was also noted.
Northern blot analysis of RNA purified from B cells treated with TGF-beta for varying time intervals revealed a significant decrease in steady state kappa and lambda L chain mRNA levels.
Furthermore, a significant decrease in the switch from the membrane forms of mu and gamma to their respective secreted forms was noted in the presence of TGF-beta.
Nuclear run-on experiments demonstrated decreased transcription of kappa L chain.
The effects of TGF-beta on two transcriptional regulatory factors, Oct-2 and nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- kappa B, known to be important in Ig gene transcription were examined.
Oct-2 mRNA levels and both Oct-2 and NF-kappa B proteins in nuclear extracts were not altered by treatment with TGF-beta.
In contrast, levels of the transcriptional factor AP-1, which is not known to be important in B cell Ig production, were reduced by TGF-beta.
These findings demonstrate that TGF-beta decreases B lymphocyte Ig secretion by inhibiting the synthesis of Ig mRNA and inhibiting the switch from the membrane form to the secreted forms of mu and gamma mRNA.
The human myelomonocytic cell line U-937 as a model for studying alterations in steroid-induced monokine gene expression : marked enhancement of lipopolysaccharide-stimulated interleukin-1 beta messenger RNA levels by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3.
The active metabolite of vitamin D, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 -LSB- 1,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 -RSB-, is a potent regulator of human monocyte/macrophage function in vitro.
To establish a model for 1,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 regulation of human monocyte monokine synthesis, three human cell lines -LRB- U-937, THP-1, and HL-60 -RRB- were examined for : 1 -RRB- the presence of functional 1,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptors ; 2 -RRB- the accumulation of interleukin-1 beta -LRB- IL-1 beta -RRB- mRNA and IL-1 beta protein in response to lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- ; and 3 -RRB- the regulation of this response by 1,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3.
All three cell lines expressed vitamin D receptor and had increased levels of IL-1 beta mRNA in response to LPS.
Preincubation of cells with 1,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 augmented IL-1 beta mRNA levels only in U-937 and HL-60 cells.
From these data, and taking into consideration their state of differentiation and relative ease of culture, U-937 was chosen over HL-60 and THP-1 as the cell line we further characterized.
In U-937 cells, optimum time and dose of pretreatment with 1,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 were determined to be 12-24 h at a receptor saturating concentration of 1,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 -LRB- 10 nM -RRB-.
Preincubation of cells with 1,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 had no effect on the time course of IL-1 beta mRNA appearance in response to LPS.
However, exposure of U-937 cells to 1,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 increased by 200 % the level of IL-1 beta mRNA detected and decreased by three orders of magnitude the concentration of LPS required to achieve steady state mRNA levels equivalent to those observed in U-937 cells not preincubated with the hormone .2 + o.
Cortivazol mediated induction of glucocorticoid receptor messenger ribonucleic acid in wild-type and dexamethasone-resistant human leukemic -LRB- CEM -RRB- cells.
Cortivazol is a phenylpyrazolo glucocorticoid of high potency and unusual structure.
In both wild-type and highly dexamethasone -LRB- dex -RRB- - resistant clones of the human leukemic cell line CEM, exposure to cortivazol leads to cell death.
It has been shown recently that in wild-type CEM cells but not in a dex-resistant, glucocorticoid receptor -LRB- GR -RRB- - defective clone ICR-27 TK-3, dex induces GR mRNA.
Cortivazol significantly induced GR mRNA in the normal CEM-C7 as well as in two classes of dex-resistant clones, although the dex-resistant clones needed at least 10 times more cortivazol than the normal cells for significant GR mRNA induction.
Increased levels of GR mRNA were noticed as early as 3 h after treatment.
A general correlation between induction of GR mRNA and lysis of the normal and dex-resistant cells was found.
However, the lysis pathway in the dex-resistant cells is defective in that dex-resistant clones needed significantly more cortivazol than the normal cells for lysis of the cells.
Transactivation of the human immunodeficiency virus promoter by human herpesvirus 6 -LRB- HHV-6 -RRB- strains GS and Z-29 in primary human T lymphocytes and identification of transactivating HHV-6 -LRB- GS -RRB- gene fragments.
Human herpesvirus 6 -LRB- HHV-6 -RRB- can activate the human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- promoter and accelerate cytopathic effects in HIV-infected human T cells.
This study examines the regions of the HIV promoter required for HHV-6 transactivation in a heterogeneous population of primary human T lymphocytes with or without antigenic stimulation.
Two different strains of HHV-6, GS and Z29, transactivated the HIV promoter.
The GS strain transactivated the promoter in both stimulated and resting T cells, while the Z29 strain increased HIV promoter activity only in stimulated T cells.
Three DNA clones containing HHV-6 -LRB- GS -RRB- genomic fragments transactivated the HIV promoter in cotransfected T cells.
A 21.4-kb DNA clone, pZVB70, showed the highest transactivating ability, while two other DNA fragments, pZVB10 -LRB- 6.2 kb -RRB- and pZVH14 -LRB- 8.7 kb -RRB-, showed lower activity.
One of these clones, pZVH14, activated the HIV promoter construct containing a mutation in the NF kappa B site.
However, this mutated NF kappa B promoter was not transactivated during HHV-6 -LRB- GS -RRB- infection or after cotransfection with pZVB70 or pZVB10.
The rhombotin family of cysteine-rich LIM-domain oncogenes : distinct members are involved in T-cell translocations to human chromosomes 11p15 and 11p13.
A chromosomal translocation in a T-cell leukemia involving the short arm of human chromosome 11 at band 11p15 disrupts the rhombotin gene.
This gene encodes a protein with duplicated cysteine-rich regions called LIM domains, which show homology to zinc-binding proteins and to iron-sulfur centers of ferredoxins.
Two homologues of the rhombotin gene have now been isolated.
One of these, designated Rhom-2, is located on human chromosome 11 at band 11p13, where a cluster of T-cell leukemia-specific translocations occur ;.
all translocation breakpoints at 11p13 are upstream of the Rhom-2 gene.
Human and mouse Rhom-2 are highly conserved and, like rhombotin, encode two tandem cysteine-rich LIM domains.
Rhom-2 mRNA is expressed in early mouse development in central nervous system, lung, kidney, liver, and spleen but only very low levels occur in thymus.
The other gene, designated Rhom-3, is not on chromosome 11 but also retains homology to the LIM domain of rhombotin.
Since the Rhom-2 gene is such a common site of chromosomal damage in T-cell tumors, the consistency of translocations near the rhombotin gene was further examined.
A second translocation adjacent to rhombotin was found and at the same position as in the previous example.
Therefore, chromosome bands 11p15 -LRB- rhombotin -RRB- and 11p13 -LRB- Rhom-2 -RRB- are consistent sites of chromosome translocation in T-cell leukemia, with the 11p15 target more rarely involved.
The results define the rhombotin gene family as a class of T-cell oncogenes with duplicated cysteine-rich LIM domains.
Human erythroid 5-aminolevulinate synthase : promoter analysis and identification of an iron-responsive element in the mRNA.
5-Aminolevulinate synthase -LRB- ALAS -RRB- catalyzes the first step of the heme biosynthetic pathway.
cDNA clones for the human erythroid ALAS isozyme were isolated from a fetal liver library.
The two isozymes show little amino acid identity in their N-terminal signal sequences but have considerable sequence identity in the C-terminal two-thirds of their proteins.
An iron-responsive element -LRB- IRE -RRB- motif has been identified in the 5' - untranslated region of the human erythroid ALAS mRNA, but is not present in the housekeeping ALAS mRNA.
Gel retardation experiments established that this IRE motif formed a protein - RNA complex with cytosolic extracts from human K562 cells and this binding was strongly competed with IRE transcripts from ferritin or transferrin receptor mRNAs.
A transcript of the ALAS IRE, mutated in the conserved loop of the IRE, did not readily form this protein - RNA complex.
Human tumor necrosis factor alpha gene regulation in phorbol ester stimulated T and B cell lines.
The minimal region of the human tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- gene promoter necessary for its transcriptional induction by phorbol esters -LRB- PMA -RRB- in human T and B lymphocyte cell lines has been localized between -52 and +89 nucleotides -LRB- nt -RRB- relative to the gene 's transcriptional start site.
Comparison of these sequences to those required to mediate virus or lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- induction of the gene reveal significant differences, and thus, the sequence requirements for PMA induction are distinct from those that mediate induction by virus or LPS.
Although three sites in the TNF-alpha promoter -LRB- kappa 1, kappa 2, and kappa 3 -RRB- specifically bind the transcription factor NF-kappa B in lymphoid nuclear extracts, TNF-alpha mRNA induction by PMA does not correlate with NF-kappa B binding activities displayed by different T and B cell lines.
Moreover, kappa 1-kappa 3 can each be deleted from the TNF-alpha promoter with little effect on the gene 's inducibility by PMA.
Therefore, TNF-alpha mRNA induction by PMA, like its induction by virus and LPS, is not primarily mediated by NF-kappa B, but rather is mediated through other sequences and protein factors.
Surprisingly, multimers of kappa 1-kappa 3 can confer PMA inducibility on a heterologous promoter in a B -LRB- Raji -RRB-, but not a T -LRB- HUT78 -RRB- cell line.
Expression of 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptors on alveolar lymphocytes from patients with pulmonary granulomatous diseases.
1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 is known to be produced at sites of granulomatous reactions.
In order to characterize the cell types that are targets for this immunoregulatory hormone, we have evaluated the expression of 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptors on peripheral blood T-lymphocytes and those recovered from the lung by bronchoalveolar lavage from patients with pulmonary granulomatous diseases -LRB- tuberculosis and sarcoidosis -RRB- and from normal control subjects using combined autoradiographic and immunohistochemical techniques.
Lavage T-lymphocytes from patients with tuberculosis or with sarcoidosis, but not those from normal control subjects, expressed 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptors as demonstrated by binding of -LSB- 3H -RSB- 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3, which was inhibited by the presence of excess unlabeled 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3, but not by the presence of unlabeled 25 -LRB- OH -RRB- D3 -LRB- receptor-positive lymphocytes : sarcoidosis, 20 + / - 12 % ; tuberculosis, 31 + / - 17 % -RRB-.
In contrast, blood lymphocytes from patients with granulomatous diseases did not express detectable 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptors.
The percentage of lavage T-lymphocytes expressing 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptors was significantly greater for patients with tuberculosis presenting with isolated hilar adenopathy than for patients with pulmonary infiltrates and/or cavities.
1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptors were expressed to a greater extent on CD8 + T-lymphocytes than on CD4 + T-lymphocytes in sarcoidosis, whereas a greater proportion of CD4 + than of CD8 + T-lymphocytes from patients with tuberculosis were receptor-positive.
Inhibition of transcription factors belonging to the rel/NF-kappa B family by a transdominant negative mutant.
The KBF1 factor, which binds to the enhancer A located in the promoter of the mouse MHC class I gene H-2Kb, is indistinguishable from the p50 DNA binding subunit of the transcription factor NF-kappa B, which regulates a series of genes involved in immune and inflammatory responses.
The KBF1/p50 factor binds as a homodimer but can also form heterodimers with the products of other members of the same family, like the c-rel and v-rel -LRB- proto -RRB- oncogenes.
The dimerization domain of KBF1/p50 is contained between amino acids 201 and 367.
A mutant of KBF1/p50 -LRB- delta SP -RRB-, unable to bind to DNA but able to form homo - or heterodimers, has been constructed.
This protein reduces or abolishes in vitro the DNA binding activity of wild-type proteins of the same family -LRB- KBF1/p50, c - and v-rel -RRB-.
This mutant also functions in vivo as a trans-acting dominant negative regulator :.
the transcriptional inducibility of the HIV long terminal repeat -LRB- which contains two potential NF-kappa B binding sites -RRB- by phorbol ester -LRB- PMA -RRB- is inhibited when it is co-transfected into CD4 + T cells with the delta SP mutant.
Similarly the basal as well as TNF or IL1-induced activity of the MHC class I H-2Kb promoter can be inhibited by this mutant in two different cell lines.
These results constitute the first formal demonstration that these genes are regulated by members of the rel/NF-kappa B family.
Cloning of a human homeobox gene that resembles a diverged Drosophila homeobox gene and is expressed in activated lymphocytes.
A new homeobox gene, HB24, has been isolated from a human B-lymphocyte cDNA library.
Northern blot analysis of polyadenylated RNA purified from activated human B cells revealed a single mRNA transcript of approximately 2.3 kb.
Two cDNA clones were sequenced and provided 2,250 nucleotides -LRB- nt -RRB- of DNA sequence information.
When the homeodomain from HB24 was compared to known mammalian and Drosophila homeodomains it was found to be only moderately conserved, but when it was compared to a highly diverged Drosophila homeodomain, H2 .0, it was found to be 80 % identical.
however, with the appropriate activation signal HB24 mRNA was induced within several hours even in the presence of cycloheximide.
Characterization of HB24 expression in lymphoid and select developing tissues was performed by in situ hybridization.
Positive hybridization was found in thymus, tonsil, bone marrow, developing vessels, and in fetal brain.
Severe 5-fluorouracil toxicity secondary to dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency.
This study describes the inheritance of a defect in pyrimidine catabolism and its association with drug-induced toxicity in a patient receiving 5-fluorouracil -LRB- FUra -RRB- as adjuvant chemotherapy for breast carcinoma.
The study population included the affected patient -LRB- proband -RRB-, nine of her blood relatives, and seven healthy volunteers.
The activity of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase -LRB- DPD -RRB-, the initial enzyme of pyrimidine -LRB- and FUra -RRB- catabolism, in peripheral blood mononuclear cells was measured in each subject by a specific radiometric assay using FUra as the substrate.
The proband had no detectable DPD activity.
When enzyme levels in the proband and relatives were compared with that in controls, an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance was demonstrated.
Towards a molecular understanding of T-cell differentiation.
Lymphoid differentiation is one of the best studied examples of mammalian development.
Here Hans Clevers and Michael Owen describe how the cloning of the genes that encode T-cell-specific membrane proteins allows the identification of transcription factors that control the expression of these T-cell genes.
Such transcription factors play a key role in the development of the mature T-cell phenotype by functioning as ` master regulators of T-cell differentiation'.
Regulation of jun and fos gene expression in human monocytes by the macrophage colony-stimulating factor.
The macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- M-CSF -RRB- is required for the growth and differentiation of mononuclear phagocytes.
However, the signaling events responsible for these effects remain unclear.
The present studies have examined the effects of M-CSF on potential signaling pathways involving expression of the jun and fos early response genes.
Low levels of c-jun transcripts were detectable in resting human peripheral blood monocytes.
Treatment of these cells with 10 -LRB- 3 -RRB- units/ml human recombinant M-CSF was associated with rapid and transient increases in c-jun mRNA levels.
Nuclear run-on assays and mRNA stability studies demonstrated that M-CSF regulates c-jun expression by both an increase in transcription rate and a prolongation in the half-life of c-jun transcripts.
M-CSF treatment was also associated with a rapid induction of the jun-B gene, although expression of this gene was prolonged compared to that of c-jun.
We further demonstrate that M-CSF increases c-fos mRNA levels in human monocytes through control at both the transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels.
Maximal induction of the c-fos gene was followed by that for the fos-B gene.
Moreover, M-CSF-induced expression of the fos-related gene, fra-1, was delayed compared to that for both c-fos and fos-B.
HTLV-1 Tax induces expression of various immediate early serum responsive genes.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 -LRB- HTLV-1 -RRB- is an etiological agent of adult T-cell leukemia -LRB- ATL -RRB-.
We showed here by mobility-shift assay that T-cell lines transformed with the virus contained high levels of AP-1 activities.
Consistent with this result, these cell lines expressed increased levels of mRNAs encoding the AP-1 proteins, c-Fos, Fra-1, c-Jun, JunB, and JunD.
Previously, transcription of the c-fos gene has been reported to be transactivated by the viral transcription factor, Tax1.
By using the human T-cell line -LRB- JPX-9 -RRB-, in which expression of the Tax1 is inducible, we showed that expression of mRNAs for Fra-1, c-Jun, and JunD was also transactivated by Tax1.
Moreover, Tax1 activated expression of two other transcription factors having zinc finger motifs, Egr-1 and Egr-2, in the same cells.
The Tax1-inducible transcription factors identified here are encoded by the members of immediate early genes under the control of growth signals.
Contribution of NF-kappa B and Sp1 binding motifs to the replicative capacity of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 : distinct patterns of viral growth are determined by T-cell types.
Virus stocks obtained from these experiments exhibited a continuum of replicative capacities in different human T-cell types depending on which element -LRB- s -RRB- was present in the LTR.
For example, in experiments involving proviral clones with LTRs containing one or two NF-kappa B elements -LRB- and no Sp1 binding sites -RRB-, a hierarchy of cellular permissivity to virus replication -LRB- peripheral blood lymphocytes = MT4 greater than H9 greater than CEM greater than Jurkat -RRB- was observed.
Of note was the associated emergence of second-site LTR revertants which involved an alteration of the TATA box.
Characterization of an immediate-early gene induced in adherent monocytes that encodes I kappa B-like activity.
We have cloned a group of cDNAs representing mRNAs that are rapidly induced following adherence of human monocytes.
One of the induced transcripts -LRB- MAD-3 -RRB- encodes a protein of 317 amino acids with one domain containing five tandem repeats of the cdc10/ankyrin motif, which is 60 % similar -LRB- 46 % identical -RRB- to the ankyrin repeat region of the precursor of NF-kappa B/KBF1 p50.
In vitro translated MAD-3 protein was found to specifically inhibit the DNA-binding activity of the p50/p65 NF-kappa B complex but not that of the p50/p50 KBF1 factor or of other DNA-binding proteins.
Reactive oxygen intermediates as apparently widely used messengers in the activation of the NF-kappa B transcription factor and HIV-1.
Hydrogen peroxide and oxygen radicals are agents commonly produced during inflammatory processes.
In this study, we show that micromolar concentrations of H2O2 can induce the expression and replication of HIV-1 in a human T cell line.
The effect is mediated by the NF-kappa B transcription factor which is potently and rapidly activated by an H2O2 treatment of cells from its inactive cytoplasmic form.
N-acetyl-L-cysteine -LRB- NAC -RRB-, a well characterized antioxidant which counteracts the effects of reactive oxygen intermediates -LRB- ROI -RRB- in living cells, prevented the activation of NF-kappa B by H2O2.
NAC and other thiol compounds also blocked the activation of NF-kappa B by cycloheximide, double-stranded RNA, calcium ionophore, TNF-alpha, active phorbol ester, interleukin-1, lipopolysaccharide and lectin.
-LSB- Changes in leucocytic estrogen receptor levels in patients with gynecomastia -RSB-.
The number of estrogen receptor -LRB- ER -RRB- in human peripheral leucocytes in 13 men with gynecomastia were measured by radioligand binding method.
The results were compared with those of 13 sex-and age-matched healthy subjects.
It was found that the number of ER in leucocytes was significantly increased in gynecomastia -LRB- Rs of leucocytes were 1054 + / - 254 sites/cell -RRB-.
Glucocorticoid receptors in systemic lupus erythematosus.
Glucocorticosteroids remain the major treatment modality for systemic lupus erythematosus -LRB- SLE -RRB-, but their mechanism of action is unclear.
Over the past decade it has become clear that glucocorticosteroid receptors play a significant role in the mechanism of glucocorticosteroid action.
We studied glucocorticosteroid receptor density and affinity on peripheral blood mononuclear cells by the glucocorticosteroid binding assay in 33 patients with SLE who had taken no glucocorticosteroid for the previous 6 months and in 32 healthy controls.
Patients' disease activity was measured by the SLE Disease Activity Index -LRB- SLEDAI -RRB-.
Glucocorticosteroid receptors on leukocytes of patients with SLE were significantly higher than in healthy controls -LRB- 4419 + / - 306 vs 3369 + / - 196, p less than 0.005 -RRB-.
The binding affinity was not different between patients and controls.
There was no correlation between glucocorticosteroid receptor number and SLE disease activity.
Inhibition of HIV-1 replication and NF-kappa B activity by cysteine and cysteine derivatives.
HIV-1 proviral DNA contains two binding sites for the transcription factor NF-kappa B..
HIV-1-infected individuals have, on average, abnormally high levels of tumour necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF alpha -RRB- and abnormally low plasma cysteine levels.
We therefore investigated the effects of cysteine and related thiols on HIV-1 replication and NF-kappa B expression.
The experiments in this report show that cysteine or N-acetylcysteine -LRB- NAC -RRB- raise the intracellular glutathione -LRB- GSH -RRB- level and inhibit HIV-1 replication in persistently infected Molt-4 and U937 cells.
Cysteine and NAC also inhibit NF-kappa B activity as determined by electrophoretic mobility shift assays and chloramphenicol acetyl-transferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- gene expression under control of NF-kappa B binding sites in uninfected cells.
Enhancement of human immunodeficiency virus 1 replication in monocytes by 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol.
Human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- expression and replication are under tight regulatory control.
We demonstrate that 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol -LSB- 1,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 -RSB- enhances the replication of monocyte - and lymphocyte-tropic strains of HIV-1 up to 10,000-fold in monocyte cell lines, peripheral blood monocytes, and unfractionated peripheral blood mononuclear cells.
1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 is therefore one of the most potent regulators of HIV-1 replication described to date.
Regulation of M-CSF expression by M-CSF : role of protein kinase C and transcription factor NF kappa B..
Macrophage-colony-stimulating factor -LRB- M-CSF -RRB-, also referred to as CSF-1, regulates the survival, growth, differentiation and functional activity of monocytes by binding to a single class of high-affinity cell surface receptors, known to be the product of the c-fms protooncogene.
Interestingly, it has been shown that M-CSF can induce the expression of its own gene.
Although sensitivity to M-CSF can be modulated by regulation of receptor expression and function, M-CSF responsiveness is largely determined at a postreceptor level.
To date, little is known about the intracellular pathway of M-CSF signal transduction.
We have therefore investigated the changes in protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- activity upon exposure of monocytes to M-CSF.
We show that M-CSF activates and translocates PKC.
Inhibition of PKC by the isoquinoline derivative H7 abolishes induction of M-CSF by M-CSF.
Furthermore, activation of PKC was pertussis-toxin-sensitive and was associated with the detection of an NF kappa B protein in nuclear extracts of M-CSF-induced blood monocytes but not in monocytes exposed to medium treatment only.
Nuclear association of a T-cell transcription factor blocked by FK-506 and cyclosporin A -LSB- see comments -RSB-.
Cyclosporin A and FK506 inhibit T - and B-cell activation and other processes essential to an effective immune response.
In T lymphocytes these drugs disrupt an unknown step in the transmission of signals from the T-cell antigen receptor to cytokine genes that coordinate the immune response.
Here we demonstrate that NF-AT is formed when a signal from the antigen receptor induces a pre-existing cytoplasmic subunit to translocate to the nucleus and combine with a newly synthesized nuclear subunit of NF-AT.
FK506 and cyclosporin A block translocation of the cytoplasmic component without affecting synthesis of the nuclear subunit.
Lymphocyte glucocorticoid receptor binding during depression and after clinical recovery.
Lymphocyte glucocorticoid receptor binding parameters were studied in 15 severely depressed patients during depression and after clinical recovery, and in 15 healthy controls.
Afternoon ACTH and cortisol concentrations did not differ significantly between the three groups.
No relationship could be established between glucocorticoid receptor binding and antidepressant medication.
-LSB- Changes in levels of leucocytic estrogen receptor in patients with menopausal type II diabetes and its significance -RSB-.
The number of estrogen receptors -LRB- ER -RRB- in human peripheral leucocytes in 12 women with menopausal type II diabetes was measured with radio-ligand binding method.
The results were compared with those of 12 menopausal women without diabetes and 12 normal women of childbearing age.
It was found that the number of ER in the patients was significantly decreased.
Glucocorticoid receptors in lymphocytes in anorexia nervosa.
OBJECTIVE : The aim was to explore the down-regulation of the glucocorticoid receptors during hypercortisolaemia in anorexia nervosa.
DESIGN : Urine and plasma samples were obtained for cortisol determination and blood lymphocytes were isolated for receptor binding studies.
PATIENTS : Sixteen anorexic patients, aged 16-27 years, with a mean + / - SEM body mass index of 14.2 + / - 2.0 -LRB- ranging from 11.1 to 17.4 -RRB-, and 15 normal women were studied.
Six patients were reinvestigated after a significant weight gain.
MEASUREMENTS : The binding capacity and affinity of the glucocorticoid receptors were measured with dexamethasone as ligand on lymphocytes.
RESULTS : In patients, both total and free plasma cortisol concentrations were higher than in the normal women, as was their urinary free cortisol ;.
the number of glucocorticoid receptors per cell -LRB- Ro -RRB- and the binding affinity -LRB- Kd -RRB- for dexamethasone were, however, not significantly different -LRB- Ro : 7687 + / - 1750 vs 7347 + / - 1285 sites/cell ; Kd : 7.7 + / - 2.4 vs 7.4 + / - 1.7 nM at 24 degrees C -RRB-.
After weight gain -LRB- 14 + / - 2 to 16 + / - 2 kg/m2 -RRB-, receptor numbers were 8421 + / - 2126 -LRB- pre -RRB- and 9011 + / - 500 -LRB- post -RRB- sites/cell, which are not significantly different -LRB- P greater than 0.2 -RRB- ;.
the Kd was unchanged -LRB- 9.3 + / - 2.6 vs 9.2 + / - 2.4 nM -RRB-.
Regulation of glucocorticoid receptors in human mononuclear cells : effects of glucocorticoid treatment, Cushing 's disease and ketoconazole.
Glucocorticoid receptors -LRB- GcR -RRB- were determined by a whole cell assay in human mononulear leukocytes -LRB- hMNL -RRB- from control subjects, patients receiving glucocorticoid therapy for systemic diseases and Cushing 's disease patients with or without ketoconazole therapy.
Prolonged corticosteroid treatment resulted in down-regulation of GcR, while the mean level of GcR in Cushing 's disease was normal.
Furthermore, GcR were unaltered after these patients received ketoconazole, in spite of a marked reduction in morning plasma cortisol and urinary free cortisol.
We also observed that ketoconazole was a weak competitor of GcR in intact cells, although it significantly inhibited -LSB- 3H -RSB- dexamethasone binding in cytosolic preparations from rat tissues.
Finally, we did not observed either up-regulation or antagonism of GcR by ketoconazole treatment, at the time that cortisol levels of patients with Cushing 's disease were reduced.
NF-kappa B activity in T cells stably expressing the Tax protein of human T cell lymphotropic virus type I..
The effect of constitutive Tax expression on the interaction of NF-kappa B with its recognition sequence and on NF-kappa B-dependent gene expression was examined in T lymphoid Jurkat cell lines -LRB- 19D and 9J -RRB- stably transformed with a Tax expression vector.
Tax expressing T cell lines contained a constitutive level of NF-kappa B binding activity, detectable by mobility shift assay and uv cross-linking using a palindromic NF-kappa B probe homologous to the interferon beta PRDII site.
In Jurkat and NC2 .10 induction with phorbol esters resulted in the appearance of new DNA binding proteins of 85, 75, and 54 kDa, whereas in Tax expressing cells the 85-kDa protein and a 92-kDa DNA binding protein were constitutively induced.
Expression of Tax protein in 19D and 9J resulted in transcription of the endogenous NF-kappa B-dependent granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor gene and increased basal level expression of transfected NF-kappa B-regulated promoters.
Nonetheless transcription of both the endogenous and the transfected gene was inducible by PMA treatment.
NF-kappa B activation by tumor necrosis factor alpha in the Jurkat T cell line is independent of protein kinase A, protein kinase C, and Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - regulated kinases.
NF-kappa B is a DNA-binding regulatory factor able to control transcription of a number of genes, including human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- genes.
In T cells, NF-kappa B is activated upon cellular treatment by phorbol esters and the cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF alpha -RRB-.
In the present work, we investigated the molecular events leading to NF-kappa B activation by TNF alpha in a human T cell line -LRB- Jurkat -RRB- and its subclone JCT6, which presents a deficiency in the PKA transduction pathway.
We found that in both cell lines, both phorbol ester and TNF alpha were able to activate NF-kappa B..
Phorbol activation was positively modulated by Ca2 + influx while TNF alpha activation was not.
Furthermore, while PMA activation was inhibited by the PKC inhibitor staurosporin, the TNF alpha effect was unchanged.
TNF alpha did not activate cAMP production and its signal was not modulated by cAMP activators.
Moreover, cAMP activators did not activate NF-kappa B in Jurkat cells.
Thus, TNF alpha-induced NF-kappa B activation was found to be mediated by none of the major signal-mediating kinases such as protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB-, protein kinase A, or Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - regulated kinases.
Furthermore, we found that cytoplasmic acidification facilitated NF-kappa B activation by both TNF alpha and PKC, by a mechanism that increases NF-kappa B/I kappa B dissociation without affecting the NF-kappa B translocation step.
HIV1 infection of human monocytes and macrophages promotes induction or translocation of NF-KB-related factors.
In 1991, we demonstrated, using electrophoretic mobility shift assays, that 3 different factors -LRB- termed B1, B2 and B3 -RRB- with affinity for the KB-enhancer target sequence were specifically detected in nuclear extracts from HIV1-infected monocytes and macrophages.
The B2 factor was induced in the nuclei of these cells only upon HIV1 infection.
The B3 factor was only slightly evident in nuclei of uninfected cells but was readily detectable in nuclei of infected monocytes.
Its expression remained very low in nuclei of HIV1-infected macrophages.
This factor remained clustered in the cytosol and was translocated to the nuclei only after HIV1 infection.
The B3 factor is detected in the cytosol only when cells are HIV1-infected.
The role of HIV1 infection in the expression and the translocation of these factors is discussed.
The effect of toremifene therapy on serum immunoglobulin levels in breast cancer.
Estrogens and anti-estrogens enhance the number of immunoglobulin -LRB- Ig -RRB- - secreting cells in pokeweed mitogen -LRB- PWM -RRB- - stimulated lymphocyte cultures.
Lymphocytes from patients who have received anti-estrogen therapy show similar enhancement of Ig-secreting cells after PWM stimulation.
In this study the effect of anti-estrogen -LRB- toremifene -RRB- therapy on serum immunoglobulin -LRB- IgA, IgM, IgG -RRB- levels in breast cancer patients was investigated.
Serum Ig levels were followed up to two years after or during the therapy.
An unexpected finding was that the Ig levels decreased during the follow-up period.
This decrease was seen in patients who responded to the therapy as well as in those who did not.
USF-related transcription factor, HIV-TF1, stimulates transcription of human immunodeficiency virus-1.
The transcription factor HIV-TF1, which binds to a region about 60 bp upstream from the enhancer of the human immunodeficiency virus-1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB-, was purified from human B cells.
HIV-TF1 had a molecular weight of 39,000.
Binding of HIV-TF1 to the HIV long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- activated transcription from the HIV promoter in vitro.
The HIV-TF1-binding site in HIV LTR was similar to the site recognized by upstream stimulatory factor -LRB- USF -RRB- in the adenovirus major late promoter.
The disruption of HIV-TF1-binding site induced a 60 % decrease in the level of transcription from the HIV promoter in vivo.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha mRNA accumulation in human myelomonocytic cell lines.
Role of transcriptional regulation by DNA sequence motifs and mRNA stabilization.
The cytokine TNF mediates many of the pathologic signs of cachexia, inflammation, and sepsis.
The current work describes the regulation of TNF in human myelomonocytic cell lines after PMA stimulation.
The cell lines exhibit a low level of constitutive TNF mRNA expression.
Within 2 to 4 h of PMA exposure, steady state levels of TNF mRNA are markedly elevated in all myelomonocytic cell lines studied.
This rise is due to increased mRNA stability, which increased by almost twofold, and to an overall increase in transcription, which rises by more than sixfold.
At the level of the genomic TNF gene, a DNase I hypersensitive site is detected within the TNF promoter between -200 to -100 bp relative to the transcription initiation site.
Although absent in nonexpressing erythroleukemia cell lines, the DNase I site is present in uninduced myelomonocytic cell lines and is not changed after PMA induction.
The PMA induction of c-fos mRNA correlated well with TNF gene induction ;.
expression of genes encoding other proteins in the AP-1 complex -LRB- junB and junD -RRB- were also induced by PMA.
The nuclear extracts from resting and induced ML-1 cells contain proteins binding specifically to the AP-1, AP-2, and NF kappa B sequence located within the TNF promoter.
PMA induction increases the level of a number of specific binding complexes relative to the resting cells.
The regulatory mechanisms of the human and murine TNF genes are discussed.
Nuclear transcription factors that bind to elements of the IL-2 promoter.
Induction requirements in primary human T cells.
Prior studies have identified several elements that contribute to the activity of the IL-2 promoter in the stimulated T cell line, Jurkat.
The sites and their corresponding nuclear binding factors include : NF-kappa B, AP-1, AP-3, OCT-1, and NF-AT.
Using electrophoretic mobility shift assays, we have studied these transcription factors in primary T cells from human blood to verify their presence in a physiologic setting and to identify the signals that stimulate factor activity.
All factors are induced in the nuclei of T cells upon activation with mitogens but not with exogenous IL-2 growth factor.
However, the signaling requirements and sensitivity to protein synthesis inhibitors differ considerably.
Other factors are induced by lectin, antibody, and/or PMA alone.
After appropriate stimulation, both NF-AT and AP-1 are peculiarly sensitive to the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin.
Our data correlate the activity of NF-AT and AP-1 in gel shift assays with the two signals requirements for IL-2 gene expression.
An erythroid specific enhancer upstream to the gene encoding the cell-type specific transcription factor GATA-1.
The transcription factor GATA-1 is expressed in a subset of hemopoietic cells, where it mediates the cell-type specific expression of several genes.
We have cloned the mouse and human GATA-1 genes.
A region upstream to the first exon, and highly conserved between mouse and man, acts as an erythroid specific enhancer in transient assays, if linked to the GATA-1 or to the SV40 promoter.
The activity of the enhancer is almost completely dependent on the integrity of a dimeric GATA-1 binding site.
Demonstration of a 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3-responsive protein in human lymphocytes : immunologic crossreactivity and inverse regulation with the vitamin D receptor.
Using Western blot analysis with a monoclonal antibody recognizing a 17-amino acid epitope of the 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 -LSB- 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 -RSB- receptor, we have detected two crossreacting proteins in activated normal human lymphocytes.
The smaller of the two proteins -LRB- 50 kDa -RRB- was indistinguishable from the classical 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptor and, similar to the classical 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptor, was upregulated in a dose-dependent fashion by 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3.
More strikingly, the 80-kDa protein was downregulated in a dose-dependent fashion by 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 ;.
this effect was independent of the mode of lymphocyte activation and specific for the 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 metabolite of vitamin D3.
However, two potent immunosuppressive agents, glucocorticoids and cyclosporin A, also inhibited the 80-kDa protein.
T-helper-cell determinants in protein antigens are preferentially located in cysteine-rich antigen segments resistant to proteolytic cleavage by cathepsin B, L, and D..
We report on a computer algorithm capable of predicting the location of T-helper-cell epitopes in protein antigen -LRB- Ag -RRB- by analysing the Ag amino acid sequence.
The algorithm was constructed with the aim of identifying segments in Ag which are resistant to proteolytic degradation by the enzymes cathepsin B, L, and D..
From information available in the literature on the substrate specificity of the three enzymes, it is clear that a cysteine is not accepted in any of the S2, S1, S1', and S2' subsites of cathepsin B and L, and not in the S1 and S1' subsites of cathepsin D..
Moreover, we have noticed that cysteine-containing T-cell determinants in a number of protein Ag are particularly rich in the amino acids alanine, glycine, lysine, leucine, serine, threonine, and valine.
By searching protein Ag for clusters of amino acids containing cysteine and two of the other amino acids we were able to predict 17 out of 23 empirically known T-cell determinants in the Ag with a relatively low number of false -LRB- positive -RRB- predictions.
Furthermore, we present a new principle for searching Ag for potential amphipatic alpha-helical protein segments.
Such segments accord well with empirically known T-cell determinants and our algorithm produces a lower number of false positive predictions than the principle based on discrete Fourier transformations previously described.
Induction of NF-kappa B during monocyte differentiation is associated with activation of HIV-gene expression.
Cells of the monocyte-macrophage lineage are important targets of HIV infection.
We report here that the phenotypic differentiation of monocyte cell lines induced by phorbol esters or tumour necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF alpha -RRB- is associated with expression of nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB-.
In parallel with such differentiation, HIV transcription, monitored using an HIV long terminal repeat reporter gene construct, is activated in such cells under the influence of enhanced NF-kappa B expression.
Also, in a promonocyte cell line chronically infected with HIV, NF-kappa B expression and HIV transcription were enhanced on stimulation with phorbol ester or TNF alpha.
Thus, stimulation of monocyte cell lines by phorbol esters or TNF alpha induces cell differentiation and activates HIV transcription.
A nuclear factor NF-GM2 that interacts with a regulatory region of the GM-CSF gene essential for its induction in responses to T-cell activation : purification from human T-cell leukemia line Jurkat cells and similarity to NF-kappa B..
Activation of T cells by antigen, lectin, or a combination of phorbol-12-myristate acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- and calcium ionophore -LRB- A23187 -RRB- leads to the induction of genes for a set of lymphokines, including granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB-.
We demonstrated in earlier studies that the upstream region of the mouse GM-CSF promoter at positions between -95 and -73 is essential for transcriptional activation in response to PMA/A23187.
This region contains two DNA-binding motifs, GM2 and GC-box.
The GM2 sequence -LRB- GGTAGTTCCC -RRB- is recognized by an inducible factor NF-GM2 ; the other -LRB- CCGCCC -RRB- by constitutive factors A1, A2, and B..
To elucidate the mechanism of GM-CSF gene activation, we have purified the inducible factor NF-GM2 from the nuclear extract of stimulated Jurkat cells on the basis of specific DNA-binding activity.
The purified NF-GM2 consists of 50 -LRB- p50 -RRB- and 65 kDa -LRB- p65 -RRB- polypeptides and has a binding activity specific for both the GM-CSF and immunoglobulin kappa -LRB- GGAAAGTCCC -RRB- enhancers.
Electrophoretically purified p50 alone can form a protein-DNA complex, but in the mixture, p50 associates preferentially with p65 to form the NF-GM2 complex.
In addition, p65 gave per se, with low affinity, a protein-DNA complex that migrated more slowly than native NF-GM2 complex.
The purified NF-GM2 activated in vitro transcription from the kappa B enhancer, while it failed to stimulate transcription from the GM-CSF promoter harboring the GM2 sequence.
Glucocorticoid receptors in normal leukocytes : effects of age, gender, season, and plasma cortisol concentrations.
We measured glucocorticoid receptors -LRB- GR -RRB- in mononuclear leukocytes -LRB- MNL -RRB- isolated from peripheral blood of 145 apparently healthy volunteers -LRB- 86 men and 59 women -RRB-.
there was no apparent seasonal variation in GR.
Gender difference in the number of GR was not significant, although women showed slightly fewer GR.
The number of GR in MNL from these patients was significantly decreased one month after the initiation of prednisolone therapy.
However, in normal subjects, the GR in MNL did not demonstrate circadian variation, in contrast to concentrations of plasma cortisol.
Anti-CD2 receptor antibodies activate the HIV long terminal repeat in T lymphocytes.
The CD2 T lymphocyte glycoprotein surface molecule mediates both cell to cell adhesion and T cell activation, two processes that are involved in the spread of HIV infection.
Treatment of chronically HIV-infected PBMC with anti-CD2 mAb has been shown to induce the expression of infectious virus from these cultures.
In this study we investigated the mechanisms whereby anti-CD2 antibodies stimulate viral production.
We demonstrate that treatment of transiently transfected T lymphocytes with anti-CD2 antibodies results in activation of the HIV long terminal repeat.
Furthermore, CAT assays using mutated HIV long terminal repeat-CAT constructs and gel shift assays demonstrate that this activation is dependent on the NF-kappa B enhancer.
Charybdotoxin-sensitive, Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - dependent membrane potential changes are not involved in human T or B cell activation and proliferation.
Human T and B lymphocytes demonstrate an early and transient hyperpolarization after ligand binding.
We have used charybdotoxin, a known inhibitor of Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - dependent K + channels, to study the role of these channels in lymphocyte activation and mitogenesis.
We demonstrate that charybdotoxin inhibits the ligand-induced transient membrane hyperpolarization in B and T cells in a dose-dependent fashion, without affecting changes in cytosolic Ca2 +.
However, blockade of the Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - activated K + channel is not associated with changes in cell-cycle gene activation, IL-2 production, IL-2R expression or B and T cell mitogenesis.
Evaluation of the role of ligand and thermal activation of specific DNA binding by in vitro synthesized human glucocorticoid receptor.
We have used a DNA-binding/immunoprecipitation assay to analyze the capacity of human glucocorticoid receptor -LRB- hGR -RRB-, generated in rabbit reticulocyte lysates, to bind DNA.
In vitro translated hGR was indistinguishable from native hGR, as determined by migration on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gels, sedimentation on sucrose density gradients, and reactivity with antipeptide antibodies generated against hGR.
In addition, cell-free synthesized hGR was capable of specific binding to glucocorticoid response element -LRB- GRE -RRB- - containing DNA fragments.
Using this assay system, we have evaluated the contributions of ligand binding and heat activation to DNA binding by these glucocorticoid receptors.
In vitro translated hGR was capable of selective DNA binding even in the absence of glucocorticoid.
Treatment with dexamethasone or the antiglucocorticoid RU486 had no additional effect on the DNA-binding capacity when receptor preparations were maintained at 0 C -LRB- no activation -RRB-.
In contrast, addition of either ligand or antagonist in combination with a heat activation step promoted DNA binding by approximately 3-fold over that of heat-activated unliganded receptors.
Agonist -LRB- dexamethasone -RRB- was slightly more effective in supporting specific DNA binding than antagonist -LRB- RU486 -RRB-.
DNA binding by in vitro synthesized GR was blocked by the addition of sodium molybdate to the receptor preparations before steroid addition and thermal activation.
The specificity of DNA binding by cell-free synthesized hGR was analyzed further by examining the abilities of various DNAs to compete for binding to a naturally occurring GRE found in the mouse mammary tumor virus-long terminal repeat.
Oligonucleotides containing the consensus GRE were the most efficient competitors, and fragments containing regulatory sequences from glucocorticoid-repressible genes were somewhat competitive, whereas single stranded oligonucleotides were unable to compete for mouse mammary tumor virus-long terminal repeat DNA binding, except when competitor was present at extremely high concentrations.
One base pair change abolishes the T cell-restricted activity of a kB-like proto-enhancer element from the interleukin 2 promoter.
The inducible, T cell-specific enhancers of murine and human Interleukin 2 -LRB- Il-2 -RRB- genes contain the kB-like sequence GGGATTTCACC as an essential cis-acting enhancer motif.
When cloned in multiple copies this so-called TCEd -LRB- distal T cell element -RRB- acts as an inducible proto-enhancer element in E14 T lymphoma cells, but not in HeLa cells.
In extracts of induced, Il-2 secreting El4 cells three individual protein factors bind to TCEd DNA.
The binding of the most prominent factor, named TCF-1 -LRB- T cell factor 1 -RRB-, is correlated with the proto-enhancer activity of TCEd.
TCF-1 consists of two polypeptides of about 50 kD and 105 kD ;.
Purified NF-kB is also able to bind to the TCEd, but TCF-1 binds stronger than NF-kB to TCEd DNA.
The conversion of the TCEd to a ` perfect' NF-kB binding site leads to a tighter binding of NF-kB to TCEd DNA and, as a functional consequence, to the activity of the ` converted' TCEd motifs in HeLa cells.
Thus, the substitution of the underlined A residue to a C within the GGGATTTCACC motif abolishes its T cell-restricted activity and leads to its functioning in both El4 cells and HeLa cells.
Negative regulation of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 expression in monocytes : role of the 65-kDa plus 50-kDa NF-kappa B dimer.
These differences in gene expression have not been molecularly defined.
In THP-1 cells with restricted HIV expression, there is an absence of DNA-protein binding complex formation with the HIV-1 promoter-enhancer associated with markedly less viral RNA production.
This absence of binding was localized to the NF-kappa B region of the HIV-1 enhancer ;.
the 65-kDa plus 50-kDa NF-kappa B heterodimer was preferentially lost.
Adding purified NF-kappa B protein to nuclear extracts from cells with restricted expression overcomes this lack of binding.
Furthermore, treatment of nuclear extracts from these cells that had restricted expression with lipopolysaccharide increased viral production and NF-kappa B activity.
Antiserum specific for NF-kappa B binding proteins, but not c-rel-specific antiserum, disrupted heterodimer complex formation.
Thus, both NF-kappa B-binding complexes are needed for optimal viral transcription.
G0S2 mRNA increases transiently within 1-2 hr of the addition of lectin or cycloheximide to cultured blood mononuclear cells.
Comparison of a nearly full-length cDNA sequence with the corresponding genomic sequence reveals one small intron and an open reading frame in the second exon.
The derived 103-amino-acid basic protein has two potential alpha-helical domains separated by a hydrophobic region with the potential to generate turns and assume a beta-sheet conformation.
Consistent with involvement in the G0/G1 switch, the protein contains potential sites for phosphorylation by protein kinase C and casein kinase II.
An upstream segment contains tandem dinucleotide repeats -LRB- CT -RRB- 19 / -LRB- CA -RRB- 16.
Synergism between two distinct elements of the HTLV-I enhancer during activation by the trans-activator of HTLV-I.
We have conducted functional studies of the enhancer elements of human T-cell leukemia virus type I -LRB- HTLV-I -RRB- using the human T-cell lines Jurkat and MOLT 4, which are negative for HTLV-I, and MT-2 and TL-Mor, which carry the proviral genome of HTLV-I.
Two distinct elements have been implicated in function of the HTLV-I enhancer.
One is the 21-base-pair -LRB- bp -RRB- core element that is responsible for trans-activation by the HTLV-I trans-activator p40tax and that has the ability to bind to cyclic-AMP responsive element binding factor -LRB- CREB -RRB- - like factor -LRB- s -RRB-.
The other is a region interposed between the 21-bp elements.
Formation of the protein-DNA complex with the C26 subfragment was positively affected by p40tax.
The C26 element conferred partial responsiveness to p40tax when linked to one copy of the 21-bp element that, by itself, showed little activation in response to p40tax.
However, the C26 element alone, even when repeated, could not be activated by p40tax, unlike other NF-kappa B-binding elements.
In contrast, the C26 element itself was profoundly activated upon stimulation with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate.
v-erbA overexpression is required to extinguish c-erbA function in erythroid cell differentiation and regulation of the erbA target gene CAII.
The v-erbA oncoprotein represents a retrovirus-transduced oncogenic version of the thyroid hormone -LRB- T3/T4 -RRB- receptor c-erbA -LRB- type alpha -RRB-.
It contributes to virus-induced erythroleukemia by efficiently arresting differentiation of red cell progenitors and by suppressing transcription of erythrocyte-specific genes.
Here, we show that v-erbA and c-erbA bind directly to sequences within the promoter of the erythrocyte-specific carbonic anhydrase II -LRB- CAII -RRB-, a gene whose transcription is efficiently suppressed by v-erbA.
This erbA-binding site confers thyroid hormone responsiveness to a heterologous promoter in transient expression experiments and is a target for efficient down-regulation of CAII transcription by the v-erbA oncoprotein.
In stably transformed erythroblasts coexpressing the v-erbA oncoprotein and the c-erbA/T3 receptor at an approximately equimolar ratio, c-erbA activity is dominant over v-erbA.
T3 efficiently induced erythroid differentiation in these cells, thus overcoming the v-erbA-mediated differentiation arrest.
Likewise, T3 activated CAII transcription as well as transient expression of a T3-responsive reporter gene containing the CAII-specific erbA-binding site.
Inhibition of phorbol ester-induced monocytic differentiation by dexamethasone is associated with down-regulation of c-fos and c-jun -LRB- AP-1 -RRB-.
Previous studies have shown that treatment of human myeloid leukemia cells with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB- is associated with induction of monocytic differentiation and expression of the c-jun and c-fos early response genes.
The present work demonstrates that the glucocorticoid dexamethasone inhibits TPA-induced increases in c-jun and c-fos mRNA levels in U-937 leukemia cells.
These findings were associated with a block in appearance of the monocytic phenotype, including inhibition of TPA-induced increases in lamin A, lamin C, and vimentin transcripts.
Other studies have demonstrated that TPA-induced monocytic differentiation and expression of the c-jun and c-fos genes in myeloid leukemia cells are regulated by protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB-.
Nuclear run-on assays demonstrate that : -LRB- 1 -RRB- induction of c-jun and c-fos expression by TPA is regulated by transcriptional mechanisms, -LRB- 2 -RRB- TPA-induced expression of c-jun and c-fos does not require protein synthesis, and -LRB- 3 -RRB- TPA-induced expression of both genes is inhibited at the transcriptional level by dexamethasone.
To further define the effects of dexamethasone at the molecular level, we prepared a series of deleted c-jun promoter fragments linked to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- gene.
This induction of CAT activity was sensitive to dexamethasone.
Identification of transcriptional suppressor proteins that bind to the negative regulatory element of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1.
Two different proteins which independently bound to neighboring sequences within the negative regulatory element -LRB- NRE -RRB- of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- were detected in the nuclear extract of a virus-infected human T cell line.
One of the factors bound to a novel dyad symmetrical sequence.
This sequence is well conserved in various HIV-1 isolates and partial homology was found with the promoter region of the human retinoblastoma gene.
Similar DNA binding activity was detected in a variety of virus-uninfected human T cell lines and HeLa cells by means of a gel mobility shift assay.
However, this factor did not bind to a typical AP-1 site.
The insertion of multiple copies of the binding site for the former or latter factor into a heterologous promoter reduced the promoter activity to one-tenth or one-third, respectively.
Regulation of interleukin-1 beta production by glucocorticoids in human monocytes : the mechanism of action depends on the activation signal.
Glucocorticoids are known to downregulate interleukin-1 beta production in monocytic cells by two different mechanims : direct inhibition of the gene transcription and destabilization of the preformed interleukin-1 beta mRNA.
Now we have examined the effect of the nature of the monocyte activating signal on these two inhibitory mechanims.
When human monocytes were preincubated with dexamethasone for 1 hour and then stimulated either with bacterial lipopolysaccharide or phorbol myristate, it was found that dexamethasone inhibited the lipopolysaccharide-induced interleukin-1 beta protein production, but the phorbol myristate-induced production was increased 3-10 fold.
This difference was also seen at the mRNA level.
When dexamethasone was added to the cultures 3 hours after the stimulators, it clearly decreased the interleukin-1 beta mRNA levels regardless of the stimulator used -LRB- although the effect was clearly weaker on the PMA-induced mRNA -RRB-.
The role of jun and fos gene family members in 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate induced hemopoietic differentiation.
Terminal differentiation of the leukemic cell lines U-937 and HL-60 by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate is accompanied by marked changes in gene expression.
In this study, we demonstrate that the expression of jun and fos gene family members is induced with variable kinetics during 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate induced differentiation, with c-jun expression best paralleling differentiation.
The generation of AP-1 complexes, as measured by DNA binding activity, closely parallels morphological differentiation.
Furthermore, the ability of these complexes to regulate gene expression is demonstrated by increased transcription from an AP-1 driven reporter construct and marked increases in the expression of endogenous AP-1 regulated genes.
Differentiation assays using water soluble phorbol esters reveal that differentiation becomes irreversible soon after AP-1 appears.
Constitutive activation of NF-kB in human thymocytes.
NF-kB is a eukaryotic transcription regulatory factor.
In T cells and T cell lines, NF-kB is bound to a cytoplasmic proteic inhibitor, the IkB.
Treatment of T cells with mitogens -LRB- phorbol esters -RRB- or cytokines -LRB- TNF alpha -RRB- induces NF-kB nuclear translocation and the subsequent expression of NF-kB dependent T cell genes.
Here we examined the activation of NF-kB in human T cell thymic progenitors.
We report differences in -LRB- Ca2 + -RRB- i requirement for NF-kB activation in thymocytes as compared to mature T cells.
Clone pAT 133 identifies a gene that encodes another human member of a class of growth factor-induced genes with almost identical zinc-finger domains.
We report the structure and regulation of a gene represented by clone pAT 133, which is induced upon transition from a resting state -LRB- G0 -RRB- through the early phase of the cell cycle -LRB- G1 -RRB-.
The pAT 133 gene is immediately induced, with FOS-like kinetics, in human T cells and in fibroblasts.
Primary structure analysis showed that the encoded protein contains three tandem zinc-finger sequences of the type Cys2-Xaa12-His2.
Except for the conserved zinc-finger domains, the amino acid sequences of the three proteins are distinct.
Comparing the regulation of these related zinc-finger-encoding genes showed coordinate induction upon mitogenic stimulation of resting T lymphocytes and of resting fibroblasts.
However, upon transition from a proliferating -LRB- G1 -RRB- to a resting state of the cell cycle the three genes were differently regulated.
In human histiocytic U937 cells mRNA of clone pAT 133 was constitutively expressed, whereas mRNA of pAT 225/EGR1 was induced upon induction of terminal differentiation.
In contrast mRNA representing pAT 591/EGR2 was not expressed in these cells.
Isolation of a candidate repressor/activator, NF-E1 -LRB- YY-1, delta -RRB-, that binds to the immunoglobulin kappa 3' enhancer and the immunoglobulin heavy-chain mu E1 site.
We have determined that the developmental control of immunoglobulin kappa 3' enhancer -LRB- kappa E3' -RRB- activity is the result of the combined influence of positive - and negative-acting elements.
We show that a central core in the kappa E3' enhancer is active at the pre-B-cell stage but is repressed by flanking negative-acting elements.
The negative-acting sequences repress enhancer activity in a position - and orientation-independent manner at the pre-B-cell stage.
We have isolated a human cDNA clone encoding a zinc finger protein -LRB- NF-E1 -RRB- that binds to the negative-acting segment of the kappa E3' enhancer.
This protein also binds to the immunoglobulin heavy-chain enhancer mu E1 site.
NF-E1 is encoded by the same gene as the YY-1 protein, which binds to the adeno-associated virus P5 promoter.
NF-E1 is also the human homologue of the mouse delta protein, which binds to ribosomal protein gene promoters.
The predicted amino acid sequence of this protein contains features characteristic of transcriptional activators as well as transcriptional repressors.
Glucocorticoid resistance in chronic asthma.
Glucocorticoid pharmacokinetics, glucocorticoid receptor characteristics, and inhibition of peripheral blood T cell proliferation by glucocorticoids in vitro.
A total of 37 chronic, severe, nonsmoking asthmatic patients with documented reversible airways obstruction were classified as glucocorticoid-sensitive or - resistant on the basis of changes in FEV1, FVC, and peak expiratory flow -LRB- PEF -RRB- after oral prednisolone.
The resistant patients showed no significant improvements in airflow limitation.
Phytohemagglutinin -LRB- PHA -RRB- - induced proliferation of peripheral blood T lymphocytes from the sensitive but not the resistant asthmatic patients was significantly -LRB- p less than 0.01 -RRB- inhibited by dexamethasone -LRB- 10 -LRB- -7 -RRB- mol/L -RRB-, reflecting a shift of the dose-response curve.
When all the asthmatic patients were analyzed together, there was a significant correlation between the degree of sensitivity of T cells to dexamethasone and the clinical responsiveness to prednisolone -LRB- p less than 0.01 -RRB-.
No differences were observed between six of the sensitive and resistant patients in the clearance of plasma prednisolone derived from orally administered prednisone.
Peripheral blood mononuclear cell glucocorticoid receptors were also characterized in five sensitive and seven resistant patients.
The numbers and binding affinities of these receptors could not account for the observed difference in the susceptibility of these cells to functional inhibition by dexamethasone in vitro.
This lack of sensitivity is unexplained but is not attributable to abnormalities of cellular glucocorticoid receptors.
cAMP-dependent regulation of proenkephalin by JunD and JunB : positive and negative effects of AP-1 proteins.
We demonstrate that JunD, a component of the AP-1 transcription factor complex, activates transcription of the human proenkephalin gene in a fashion that is completely dependent upon the cAMP-dependent protein kinase, protein kinase A..
Activation of proenkephalin transcription by JunD is dependent upon a previously characterized cAMP -, phorbol ester -, and Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - inducible enhancer, and JunD is shown to bind the enhancer as a homodimer.
Another component of the AP-1 transcription complex, JunB, is shown to inhibit activation mediated by JunD.
As a homodimer JunB is unable to bind the enhancer ; however in the presence of c-Fos, high-affinity binding is observed.
Furthermore, JunD is shown to activate transcription of genes linked to both cAMP and phorbol ester response elements in a protein kinase A-dependent fashion, further blurring the distinction between these response elements.
Transcription factor requirements for U2 snRNA-encoding gene activation in B lymphoid cells.
Transcription of a human U2 small nuclear RNA -LRB- snRNA -RRB- - encoding gene in HeLa cells requires a distal enhancer element, which is composed of one octamer motif -LRB- Oct -RRB- and three Sp 1-binding sites.
To study the transcription factor requirement in B-cells, different U2 enhancer constructions were transfected into the lymphoid cell line, BJA-B.
The results showed that the activation of U2 snRNA transcription in B-cells also requires an enhancer comprising both the Oct and at least one Sp 1-binding site.
Deletion of all the Sp 1-binding sites from the enhancer reduces transcription by 80-90 % in HeLa, as well as in BJA-B cells, whereas the removal of the octamer-binding site reduces transcription to levels below detection in both cell types.
Enhancers containing a single Oct have, nevertheless, the capacity to partially activate U2 snRNA transcription in both HeLa cells, in which only OTF-1 is expressed, and in BJA-B cells in which OTF-2 is the predominantly expressed octamer-binding factor.
The results also revealed a similar functional cooperation between the transcription factors which bind to the Oct and the adjacent Sp 1-binding site in BJA-B cells, as has been observed in HeLa cells, since a template which contains a weak binding site for OTFs expresses wild-type levels of U2 snRNA in both cell types when the weak octamer-binding site is combined with a Sp 1-binding site.
High affinity aldosterone binding to plasma membrane rich fractions from mononuclear leukocytes : is there a membrane receptor for mineralocorticoids ?.
In vitro effects of aldosterone on the intracellular concentrations of sodium, potassium and calcium, cell volume and the sodium-proton-antiport have been described in intact human mononuclear leukocytes -LRB- HML -RRB-.
In the present paper, the binding of a -LSB- 125I -RSB- - labeled aldosterone derivative to plasma membrane rich fractions of HML was studied.
Aldosterone displaced the tracer at a similar Kd.
Both canrenone and cortisol were inactive as ligands up to concentrations of 0.1 microM.
The findings are the first to demonstrate membrane binding sites with a high affinity for aldosterone, but not for cortisol.
Kappa B-specific DNA binding proteins are differentially inhibited by enhancer mutations and biological oxidation.
Kappa B -LRB- kappa B -RRB- enhancer binding proteins isolated from the nuclei of activated human T cells produce two distinct nucleoprotein complexes when incubated with the kappa B element from the interleukin-2 receptor-alpha -LRB- IL-2R alpha -RRB- gene.
These two DNA-protein complexes are composed of at least four host proteins -LRB- p50, p55, p75, p85 -RRB-, each of which shares structural similarity with the v-rel oncogene product.
Nuclear expression of these proteins is induced with distinctly biphasic kinetics following phorbol ester activation of T cells -LRB- p55/p75 early and p50/p85 late -RRB-.
DNA-protein crosslinking studies have revealed that the more rapidly migrating B2 complex contains both p50 and p55 while the more slowly migrating B1 complex is composed of p50, p55, p75, and p85.
Site-directed mutagenesis of the wild-type IL-2R alpha kappa B enhancer -LRB- GGGGAATCTCCC -RRB- has revealed that the binding of p50 and p55 -LRB- B2 complex -RRB- is particularly sensitive to alteration of the 5' triplet of deoxyguanosine residues.
In contrast, formation of the B1 complex, reflecting the binding of p75 and p85, critically depends upon the more 3' sequences of this enhancer element.
Similarly, covalent modification of free sulfhydryl groups with diamide -LRB- reversible -RRB- or N-ethylmaleimide -LRB- irreversible -RRB- results in a complete loss of DNA binding activity.
In contrast, mild oxidation with glucose oxidase selectively inhibits p75 and p85 binding while not blocking p50 and p55 interactions.
Cortisol receptor resistance : the variability of its clinical presentation and response to treatment.
Primary -LRB- partial -RRB- cortisol receptor resistance was previously reported in a total of 7 patients and 14 asymptomatic family members.
Its occurrence is considered to be extremely rare.
In the present study we report on 6 patients -LRB- 2 males and 4 females -RRB- with the syndrome.
The first male patient presented with mild hypertension.
Hydrochlorothiazide therapy resulted in life-threatening hypokalemia.
The second male patient had slight hypertension without hypokalemia.
All four female patients presented between the age of 20-30 yr with acne, hirsutism, and irregular menstruations.
Low dose dexamethasone therapy -LRB- 1-1 .5 mg/day -RRB- was of clinical benefit in these patients.
All patients showed insufficient suppression of serum cortisol concentrations in the overnight 1-mg dexamethasone test.
The diurnal rhythm of ACTH and cortisol was intact, albeit at an elevated level.
There was a normal increase in ACTH, cortisol, and GH -LRB- except in one obese patient -RRB- in response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia, while cortisol production was elevated in three patients.
Circulating adrenal androgen levels were increased in all patients.
Glucocorticoid receptors were investigated in a whole cell dexamethasone binding assay in mononuclear leukocytes.
In the first male patient, the number of receptors was very low, while the affinity was lower than that in controls.
A lowered affinity to dexamethasone was found in one female patient, while a lowered number of receptors was found in three patients.
In the second male patient, no abnormalities were found.
As a bioassay for glucocorticoid action we also measured dexamethasone suppressibility of mitogen-stimulated incorporation of -LSB- 3H -RSB- thymidine in mononuclear leukocytes.
In the male patient with normal receptor status, dexamethasone suppressibility of -LSB- 3H -RSB- thymidine incorporation was significantly lower than that in healthy controls with respect to both maximal suppression and IC50.
In the six patients presented, at least three different forms can be recognized.
Therapy with dexamethasone was successful in female patients with acne and hirsutism, as the secondary increase in the production of adrenal androgens was effectively controlled.
The cellular oncogene c-myb can interact synergistically with the Epstein-Barr virus BZLF1 transactivator in lymphoid cells.
Regulation of replicative functions in the Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- genome is mediated through activation of a virally encoded transcription factor, Z -LRB- BZLF1 -RRB-.
We have shown that the Z gene product, which binds to AP-1 sites as a homodimer and has sequence similarity to c-Fos, can efficiently activate the EBV early promoter, BMRF1, in certain cell types -LRB- i.e., HeLa cells -RRB- but not others -LRB- i.e., Jurkat cells -RRB-.
Here we demonstrate that the c-myb proto-oncogene product, which is itself a DNA-binding protein and transcriptional transactivator, can interact synergistically with Z in activating the BMRF1 promoter in Jurkat cells -LRB- a T-cell line -RRB- or Raji cells -LRB- an EBV-positive B-cell -RRB-, whereas the c-myb gene product by itself has little effect.
The simian virus 40 early promoter is also synergistically activated by the Z/c-myb combination.
A 30-bp sequence in the BMRF1 promoter which contains a Z binding site -LRB- a consensus AP-1 site -RRB- is sufficient to transfer high-level lymphoid-specific responsiveness to the Z/c-myb combination to a heterologous promoter.
TCF-1, a T cell-specific transcription factor of the HMG box family, interacts with sequence motifs in the TCR beta and TCR delta enhancers.
We have recently identified and cloned TCF-1, a T cell-specific transcription factor with specificity for the AACAAAG motif in the CD3 epsilon enhancer and for the TTCAAAG motif in the TCR alpha enhancer.
TCF-1 belongs to the family of transcription-regulating proteins which share a region of homology termed the HMG-box.
Here, we show by gel retardation analysis that TCF-1 specifically recognizes the T beta 5 element of the TCR beta enhancer and the T delta 7 element of the TCR delta enhancer.
Comparison of the sequences of all elements recognized by TCF-1 defines a consensus motif A/T A/T C A A/G A G..
Characterization of a cofactor that regulates dimerization of a mammalian homeodomain protein.
Dimerization among transcription factors has become a recurrent theme in the regulation of eukaryotic gene expression.
Hepatocyte nuclear factor-1 alpha -LRB- HNF-1 alpha -RRB- is a homeodomain-containing protein that functions as a dimer.
A dimerization cofactor of HNF-1 alpha -LRB- DCoH -RRB- was identified that displayed a restricted tissue distribution and did not bind to DNA, but, rather, selectively stabilized HNF-1 alpha dimers.
The formation of a stable tetrameric DCoH-HNF-1 alpha complex, which required the dimerization domain of HNF-1 alpha, did not change the DNA binding characteristics of HNF-1 alpha, but enhanced its transcriptional activity.
However, DCoH did not confer transcriptional activation to the GAL4 DNA binding domain.
The 29-kDa proteins phosphorylated in thrombin-activated human platelets are forms of the estrogen receptor-related 27-kDa heat shock protein.
Thrombin plays a critical role in platelet activation, hemostasis, and thrombosis.
Cellular activation by thrombin leads to the phosphorylation of multiple proteins, most of which are unidentified.
We have characterized several 29-kDa proteins that are rapidly phosphorylated following exposure of intact human platelets to thrombin.
A murine monoclonal antibody raised to an unidentified estrogen receptor-related 29-kDa protein selectively recognized these proteins as well as a more basic, unphosphorylated 27-kDa protein.
Cellular activation by thrombin led to a marked shift in the proportion of protein from the 27-kDa unphosphorylated form to the 29-kDa phosphoprotein species.
Using this antibody, we isolated and sequenced a human cDNA clone encoding a protein that was identical to the mammalian 27-kDa heat shock protein -LRB- HSP27 -RRB-, a protein of uncertain function that is known to be phosphorylated to several forms and to be transcriptionally induced by estrogen.
The 29-kDa proteins were confirmed to be phosphorylated forms of HSP27 by immunoprecipitation studies.
Thus, the `` estrogen receptor-related protein '' is HSP27, and the three major 29-kDa proteins phosphorylated in thrombin-activated platelets are forms of HSP27.
Stimulation of interferon beta gene transcription in vitro by purified NF-kappa B and a novel TH protein.
The human interferon beta -LRB- IFN-beta -RRB- regulatory element consists of multiple enhanson domains which are targets for transcription factors involved in inducible expression of the promoter.
To further characterize the protein-DNA interactions mediating IFN-beta induction, positive regulatory domain -LRB- PRD -RRB- II binding proteins were purified from phorbol ester induced Jurkat T-cells and from IFN primed, cycloheximide/polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid treated HeLa S3 cells.
From HeLa cells, two major proteins of 52 and 45 kilodaltons -LRB- kD -RRB- copurified with DNA binding activity, whereas from T-cells, four proteins -- a major protein of 52 kD and three minor proteins of 82, 67, and 43-47 kD -- were purified.
Also, an induction specific DNA binding protein was purified from HeLa cells that interacted with the -LRB- AAGTGA -RRB- 4 tetrahexamer sequence and the PRDI domain.
This protein is immunologically distinct from IRF-1 / ISGF2.
Uninduced or Sendai virus induced HeLa extracts were used to examine transcription in vitro using a series of IFN beta promoter deletions.
A 2-4-fold increase in IFN-beta promoter transcription was observed in Sendai virus induced extracts, and deletion of PRDI and PRDII elements decreased this induced level of transcription.
When purified PRDII and tetrahexamer binding proteins were added to the induced extract, a 4-fold increase in transcription was observed.
Structure function analysis of vitamin D analogs with C-ring modifications.
Analogs of 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 -LRB- 1 alpha ,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 -RRB- with substitutions on C-11 were synthesized.
Small apolar substitutions -LRB- 11 alpha-methyl, 11 alpha-fluoromethyl -RRB- did not markedly decrease the affinity for the vitamin D receptor, but larger -LRB- 11 alpha-chloromethyl or 11 alpha - or 11 beta-phenyl -RRB- or more polar substitutions -LRB- 11 alpha-hydroxymethyl, 11 alpha - -LRB- 2-hydroxyethyl -RSB- decreased the affinity to less than 5 % of that of 1 alpha,25-OH -RRB- 2D3.
Their affinity for the vitamin D-binding protein, however, increased up to 4-fold.
The biological activity of 11 alpha-methyl-1 alpha ,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 closely resembled that of the natural hormone on normal and leukemic cell proliferation and bone resorption, whereas its in vivo effect on calcium metabolism of the rachitic chick was about 50 % of that of 1 alpha ,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3.
The 11 beta-methyl analog had a greater than 10-fold lower activity.
The differentiating effects of the other C-11 analogs on human promyeloid leukemia cells -LRB- HL-60 -RRB- agreed well with their bone-resorbing activity and receptor affinity, but they demonstrated lower calcemic effects in vivo.
Large or polar substitutions on C-11 of 1 alpha ,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 thus impair the binding of the vitamin D receptor but increase the affinity to vitamin D-binding protein.
The effects of many C-11-substituted 1 alpha ,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 analogs on HL-60 cell differentiation exceeded their activity on calcium metabolism.
Influence of estradiol and tamoxifen on susceptibility of human breast cancer cell lines to lysis by lymphokine-activated killer cells.
Estrogen receptor positive -LRB- ER + : MCF-7 -RRB- and negative -LRB- ER - : MDA-MB-231 -RRB- human breast cancer cell lines were utilized to evaluate the effects of tamoxifen -LRB- TAM -RRB- and estradiol -LRB- E2 -RRB- on modulation of breast cancer target susceptibility to lysis by lymphokine-activated killer -LRB- LAK -RRB- cells.
E2-stimulated ER + cells were more susceptible to lysis by LAK cells than corresponding TAM-treated or control cells, while treatment of ER - cells with either E2 or TAM alone did not alter from control their susceptibility to this immune-mediated lysis.
All ER + and ER - cells tested remained sensitive after treatment with TAM to lysis by LAK cells.
In addition, an adenocarcinoma reactive human-mouse chimeric monoclonal antibody -LRB- ING-1 -RRB- was able to significantly boost in vivo generated LAK cell-mediated lysis of control, E2-treated, and TAM-treated ER + and ER - cells.
These in vitro results provide a preclinical rationale for in vivo testing of TAM, interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB-, and breast cancer reactive antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity facilitating antibody in patients with refractory or high risk breast cancer.
Glucocorticoid receptor and inhibition of 3-O-methyl-D-glucose uptake by glucocorticoids in peripheral blood leukocytes from normal humans : correlation between receptor level and hormone effect in vitro.
We have measured the glucocorticoid receptor concentration in mononuclear and polymorphonuclear leukocytes, both of which were isolated from peripheral blood from ten healthy male volunteers.
In parallel, the inhibitory effect of dexamethasone on 3-O-methyl-D-glucose uptake was assayed in the corresponding mononuclear leukocytes.
The glucocorticoid receptor levels in mononuclear leukocytes correlated with those in polymorphonuclear leukocytes, and there was a linear relationship between the cellular glucocorticoid receptor levels and glucocorticoid-mediated inhibition of the uptake of 3-O-methyl-D-glucose in mononuclear leukocytes.
When mononuclear leukocytes were incubated in the presence of 8-bromo-cAMP, cellular glucocorticoid receptor levels increased and a more pronounced inhibitory effect of dexamethasone was observed on the transport of 3-O-methyl-D-glucose.
A novel primer extension method to detect the number of CAG repeats in the androgen receptor gene in families with X-linked spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy.
X-linked spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy -LRB- SBMA -RRB-, an adult-onset form of motor neuron disease, was recently reported to be caused by amplification of the CAG repeats in the androgen receptor gene.
We report here a simple and rapid strategy to detect the precise number of the CAGs.
After the DNA fragment containing the CAG repeats is amplified by the polymerase chain reaction, a primer extension is carried out ;.
the extension of the end-labelled reverse primer adjacent to 3' end of CAG repeats stops at the first T after CAG repeats with the incorporation of dideoxy ATP in the reaction mixture.
The resultant primer products are analysed by denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and autoradiography.
Activity of the kappa B enhancer of the interleukin-2 receptor alpha chain in somatic cell hybrids is accompanied by the nuclear localization of NF-kappa B..
The two nuclear proteins NF-kappa B -LRB- consisting of subunits p50 and p65 -RRB- and the DNA-binding subunit of NF-kappa B -LRB- p50 -RRB- by itself, also called KBF1, are constitutively expressed and localized in the nucleus of the human T-cell line IARC 301.5.
In order to define the roles of these two factors, which bind to the same kappa B enhancers, in transcription activation we have prepared somatic cell hybrids between IARC 301.5 and a murine myeloma.
Most hybrids express both KBF1 and NF-kappa B in their nuclei, but one hybrid expresses only KBF1.
The kappa B enhancer of the gene encoding the interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- receptor alpha chain -LRB- IL-2R alpha -RRB- is functional only in the hybrids expressing nuclear NF-kappa B..
These findings show that nuclear NF-kappa B is necessary to activate the kappa B enhancer, while KBF1 by itself is not sufficient.
A novel mitogen-inducible gene product related to p50/p105-NF-kappa B participates in transactivation through a kappa B site.
A Rel-related, mitogen-inducible, kappa B-binding protein has been cloned as an immediate-early activation gene of human peripheral blood T cells.
The cDNA has an open reading frame of 900 amino acids capable of encoding a 97-kDa protein.
This protein is most similar to the 105-kDa precursor polypeptide of p50-NF-kappa B..
In vitro-translated proteins, truncated downstream of the Rel domain and excluding the repeats, bind kappa B sites.
We refer to the kappa B-binding, truncated protein as p50B by analogy with p50-NF-kappa B and to the full-length protein as p97.
p50B is able to form heteromeric kappa B-binding complexes with RelB, as well as with p65 and p50, the two subunits of NF-kappa B..
-LSB- Changes in leucocytic estrogen receptor levels in patients with climacteric syndrome and therapeutic effect of liuwei dihuang pills -RSB-.
The numbers of estrogen receptor -LRB- ER -RRB- in human peripheral leucocytes in 22 women with climacteric syndrome were measured by radioligand method.
The results were compared with those of 12 normal child-bearing-age women.
It wat found that the contents of leucocytic ER in climacteric syndrome patients were significantly lower than normal child-bearing-age women.
The authors used a Chinese prescription -- Liuwei Dihuang Pills -LRB- LDP -RRB- to treat the patients for 2 months.
The numbers of leucocytic ER were significantly increased after treatment.
LDP not only increases plasma estradiol levels, but also increases the leucocytic ER levels.
Gangliosides suppress tumor necrosis factor production in human monocytes.
We have studied the impact of gangliosides on the expression of TNF in blood monocytes and in the monocytic cell line Mono Mac 6.
Although under standard culture conditions, bovine brain gangliosides -LRB- 100 micrograms/ml -RRB- suppressed LPS-stimulated TNF production 5-fold in PBMC and 10-fold in Mono Mac 6 cells, suppression was more efficient under serum-free conditions.
Looking at highly purified gangliosides, GD3, GD1a, GM3, GM2, and GM1 were all effective in reducing TNF production in PBMC, and in Mono Mac 6 by factor 10 to 50.
Furthermore, in time kinetics, gangliosides were effective for up to 30 min after addition of LPS, but not thereafter.
However, the expression of the CD14 Ag, a receptor molecule for LPS-LPS binding protein complexes, was unaffected by gangliosides.
Finally, when using Staphylococcus aureus or platelet activating factor as a stimulus, gangliosides were able to suppress TNF production in Mono Mac 6 cells by factor 5 to 10, as well.
On the other hand, phorbol ester-induced production of O2 - was similar in cells treated with and without gangliosides.
Taken together, our data demonstrate that TNF gene expression in monocytes induced by different types of stimuli can be blocked by gangliosides at an early step of signal transduction.
T cell-specific negative regulation of transcription of the human cytokine IL-4.
IL-4 secreted by activated T cells is a pleiotropic cytokine affecting growth and differentiation of diverse cell types such as T cells, B cells, and mast cells.
We investigated the upstream regulatory elements of the human IL-4 promoter.
A novel T cell-specific negative regulatory element -LRB- NRE -RRB- composed of two protein-binding sites were mapped in the 5' flanking region of the IL-4 gene : -311 CTCCCTTCT-303 -LRB- NRE-I -RRB- and -288 CTTTTTGCTT-TGC-300 -LRB- NRE-II -RRB-.
A T cell-specific protein Neg-1 and a ubiquitous protein Neg-2 binding to NRE-I and NRE-II, respectively, were identified.
Furthermore, a positive regulatory element was found 45 bp downstream of the NRE.
The enhancer activity of the PRE was completely suppressed when the NRE was present.
Interleukin 6-induced differentiation of a human B cell line into IgM-secreting plasma cells is mediated by c-fos.
The role of the protooncogene c-fos in interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- 6-induced B cell differentiation was assessed.
Treatment of SKW 6.4 cells with IL 6 induced a transient and early stimulation of c-fos sense mRNA expression.
The effect appeared within 30 min and returned to basal levels after 2 h..
The addition of antisense oligonucleotides to c-fos significantly inhibited IL 6-induced IgM production by SKW 6.4 cells -LRB- p less than 0.001 -RRB-, whereas control oligonucleotides had no inhibitory effect.
Binding of erythroid and non-erythroid nuclear proteins to the silencer of the human epsilon-globin-encoding gene.
To clarify the molecular mechanisms involved in the developmental control of hemoglobin-encoding genes we have been studying the expression of these genes in human cells in continuous culture.
We have previously reported the presence of a transcriptional control element with the properties of a silencer extending from -392 to -177 bp relative to the cap site of the human epsilon-globin-encoding gene -LSB- Cao et al., Proc.Natl.Acad.Sci.USA 86 -LRB- 1989 -RRB- 5306-5309 -RSB-.
We also showed that this silencer has stronger inhibitory activity in HeLa cells, as compared to K562 human erythroleukemia cells.
Using deletion mutants and cis-cloned synthetic oligodeoxyribonucleotides in transient expression assays, nucleotide sequences responsible for this effect have now been further delimited to 44 bp located from -294 to -251 bp.
Gel electrophoresis mobility shift assays and DNaseI footprinting assays demonstrate that these negative regulatory sequences are recognized differently by proteins present in nuclear extracts obtained from HeLa and K562 cells.
Two binding proteins are detected in K562 nuclear extracts, while only one is found in extracts from HeLa cells.
Induction of monocytic differentiation and NF-kappa B-like activities by human immunodeficiency virus 1 infection of myelomonoblastic cells.
The effects of human immunodeficiency virus 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- infection on cellular differentiation and NF-kappa B DNA binding activity have been investigated in a new model of myeloid differentiation.
PLB-985 cells represent a bipotential myelomonoblastic cell population capable of either granulocytic or monocytic differentiation after induction with appropriate inducers.
By virtue of the presence of CD4 on the cell surface, PLB-985 cells were chronically infected with HIV-1 strain IIIB.
PLB-IIIB cells clearly possessed a more monocytic phenotype than the parental myeloblasts, as determined by differential staining, increased expression of the myeloid-specific surface markers, and transcription of the c-fms proto-oncogene.
NF-kappa B binding activity was inducible by tumor necrosis factor and phorbol myristate acetate in PLB-985.
However, in PLB-IIIB cells, constitutive expression of a novel NF-kappa B complex was detected, composed of proteins ranging between 70 and 110 kD.
These proteins interacted specifically with the symmetric NF-kappa B site from the interferon beta -LRB- IFN-beta -RRB- promoter.
Mutations affecting the 5' guanine residues of the kappa B site were unable to compete for these NF-kappa B-related proteins.
Inducibility of endogenous IFN-beta and IFN-alpha RNA was also increased in PLB-IIIB cells.
We have examined the potential role of PKC in induction of the interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- gene in T cells stimulated through the T cell receptor/CD3 complex.
We have previously shown that prolonged treatment of the untransformed T cell clone Ar-5 with phorbol esters results in downmodulation of the alpha and beta isozymes of PKC, and abrogates induction of IL-2 mRNA and protein.
Here we show that phorbol ester treatment also abolishes induction of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase activity in Ar-5 cells transfected with a plasmid containing the IL-2 promoter linked to this reporter gene.
We show that induction of a trimer of the NFAT and Oct sites is not sensitive to phorbol ester treatment, and that mutations in the NF-kappa B site have no effect on inducibility of the IL-2 promoter.
In contrast, mutations in the AP-1 site located at -150 bp almost completely abrogate induction of the IL-2 promoter, and appearance of an inducible nuclear factor binding to this site is sensitive to PKC depletion.
Moreover, cotransfections with c-fos and c-jun expression plasmids markedly enhance induction of the IL-2 promoter in minimally stimulated T cells.
Transcriptional regulation during T-cell development : the alpha TCR gene as a molecular model.
The regulation of gene expression during lymphocyte differentiation is a complex process involving interactions between multiple positive and negative transcriptional regulatory elements.
In this article, transcriptional regulation of the archetypal T-cell-specific gene, alpha TCR, is discussed.
Major recent developments, including the identification of novel families of transcription factors that regulate multiple T-cell genes during thymocyte ontogeny and T-cell activation, are described.
Cortisol resistance in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
This study concerns 9 iv drug abusers with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome -LRB- AIDS -RRB- who developed hypercortisolism without the clinical signs or metabolic consequences of hypercortisolism.
All patients were characterized by an Addisonian picture -LRB- weakness, weight loss, hypotension, hyponatremia, and intense mucocutaneous melanosis -RRB-.
We, therefore, examined glucocorticoid receptor characteristics on mononuclear leukocytes by measuring -LSB- 3H -RSB- dexamethasone binding and the effect of dexamethasone on -LSB- 3H -RSB- thymidine incorporation, which is one of the effects of glucocorticoid receptor activation.
Glucocorticoid receptor density was increased in AIDS patients with an Addisonian picture -LRB- group 1 ; 16.2 + / - 9.4 fmol/million cells -RRB- compared to values in 12 AIDS patients without an Addisonian picture -LRB- group 2 ; 6.05 + / - 2.6 fmol/million cells ; P less than 0.01 -RRB- and sex - and age-matched controls -LRB- 3.15 + / - 2.3 fmol/million cells ; P less than 0.01 -RRB-.
The affinity of glucocorticoid receptors -LRB- Kd -RRB- was strikingly decreased -LRB- 9.36 + / - 3.44 nM in group 1 ; 3.2 + / - 1.5 nM in group 2 ; 2.0 + / - 0.8 nM in controls ; P less than 0.01 -RRB-.
-LSB- 3H -RSB- Thymidine incorporation was decreased dose-dependently by dexamethasone in controls and patients ;.
In conclusion, AIDS patients with hypercortisolism and clinical features of peripheral resistance to glucocorticoids are characterized by abnormal glucocorticoid receptors on lymphocytes.
Leukotriene B4 stimulates c-fos and c-jun gene transcription and AP-1 binding activity in human monocytes.
We have examined the effect of leukotriene B4 -LRB- LTB4 -RRB-, a potent lipid proinflammatory mediator, on the expression of the proto-oncogenes c-jun and c-fos.
In addition, we looked at the modulation of nuclear factors binding specifically to the AP-1 element after LTB4 stimulation.
LTB4 increased the expression of the c-fos gene in a time - and concentration-dependent manner.
The c-jun mRNA, which is constitutively expressed in human peripheral-blood monocytes at relatively high levels, was also slightly augmented by LTB4, although to a much lower extent than c-fos.
The kinetics of expression of the two genes were also slightly different, with c-fos mRNA reaching a peak at 15 min after stimulation and c-jun at 30 min.
Both messages rapidly declined thereafter.
Stability of the c-fos and c-jun mRNA was not affected by LTB4, as assessed after actinomycin D treatment.
Nuclear transcription studies in vitro showed that LTB4 increased the transcription of the c-fos gene 7-fold and the c-jun gene 1.4-fold.
Resting monocytes contained nuclear factors binding to the AP-1 element, but stimulation of monocytes with LTB4 induced greater AP-1-binding activity of nuclear proteins.
Here we demonstrate that the endogenous thyroid hormone receptor alpha -LRB- c-erbA/TR-alpha -RRB- and the closely related retinoic acid receptor alpha -LRB- RAR-alpha -RRB- play a role in the regulation of normal erythroid differentiation.
Retinoic acid -LRB- RA -RRB- distinctly modulated the erythroid differentiation program of normal erythroid progenitors and erythroblasts reversibly transformed by a conditional tyrosine kinase oncogene.
When added pulsewise to immature cells, differentiation was accelerated while more mature cells underwent premature cell death.
Thyroid hormone -LRB- T3 -RRB- alone caused similar but weaker effects.
Expression of the human RAR-alpha in receptor-negative erythroblasts conferred RA-induced regulation of differentiation to the otherwise unresponsive cells, thus showing that the RAR-alpha is essential for the RA effect.
A lymphoid cell-specific nuclear factor containing c-Rel-like proteins preferentially interacts with interleukin-6 kappa B-related motifs whose activities are repressed in lymphoid cells.
The proto-oncoprotein c-Rel is a member of the nuclear factor kappa B transcription factor family, which includes the p50 and p65 subunits of nuclear factor kappa B..
We show here that c-Rel binds to kappa B sites as homodimers as well as heterodimers with p50.
These homodimers and heterodimers show distinct DNA-binding specificities and affinities for various kappa B motifs.
In particular, the c-Rel homodimer has a high affinity for interleukin-6 -LRB- IL-6 -RRB- and beta interferon kappa B sites.
In spite of its association with p50 in vitro, however, we found a lymphoid cell-specific nuclear factor in vivo that contains c-Rel but not p50 epitopes ;.
Although it has been previously shown that the IL-6 kappa B motif functions as a potent IL-1 / tumor necrosis factor-responsive element in nonlymphoid cells, its activity was found to be repressed in lymphoid cells such as a Jurkat T-cell line.
We also present evidence that IL-6 kappa B binding factor II functions as a repressor specific for IL-6 kappa B-related kappa B motifs in lymphoid cells.
Mineralocorticoid effector mechanism in preeclampsia.
Mineralocorticoid effector mechanisms were evaluated in 29 patients with preeclampsia and in 25 uncomplicated pregnancies by measurement of plasma aldosterone, levels of mineralocorticoid receptor -LRB- MR -RRB- in mononuclear leucocytes, and subtraction potential difference -LRB- SPD ; rectal minus oral values -RRB-.
Mean values for plasma aldosterone were not different between the two groups, but significant differences were observed for MR -LRB- preeclampsia, 81 + / - 44 receptors/cell ; controls, 306 + / - 168 -RRB- and SPD -LRB- preeclampsia, 65 + / - 7 mV ; controls, 12 + / - 5 mV -RRB-.
In six cases we determined MR, plasma aldosterone, and SPD in patients with preeclampsia before and 3 months after delivery.
MR were reduced before delivery -LRB- 96 + / - 27 receptors/cell -RRB-, and SPD increased -LRB- 64 + / - 8 mV -RRB-, with both parameters normalizing after delivery -LRB- MR, 242 + / - 79 ; SPD, 14.0 + / - 4 mV -RRB-.
Aldosterone levels returned to normal nonpregnant values after delivery.
Mineralocorticoids and mineralocorticoid receptors in mononuclear leukocytes in patients with pregnancy-induced hypertension.
To examine the role of mineralocorticoids in the pathophysiology of pregnancy-induced hypertension -LRB- PIH -RRB-, we studied plasma aldosterone and 18-hydroxycorticosterone levels in 25 women with PIH and 25 normal pregnant women, as controls.
Furthermore, we evaluated the mineralocorticoid receptor -LRB- MR -RRB- status in mononuclear leukocytes in the 2 groups.
MR count was significantly -LRB- P less than 0.0005 -RRB- decreased in the PIH group -LRB- 148 + / - 9 binding sites/cell -RRB- compared with the control group -LRB- 300 + / - 17 binding sites/cell ; mean + / - SEM -RRB-.
Plasma aldosterone in women with PIH was 281 + / - 61 pmol/L ;.
in normal pregnant women it was 697 + / - 172 pmol/L -LRB- P less than 0.025 -RRB-.
Plasma 18-hydroxycorticosterone was also significantly -LRB- P less than 0.025 -RRB- lower -LRB- PIH, 1071 + / - 149 pmol/L ; controls, 1907 + / - 318 pmol/L -RRB-.
These values were determined at the onset of clinical symptoms of PIH.
These results can not be explained by receptor down-regulation due to higher levels of mineralocorticoids in PIH ;.
cis-acting sequences required for inducible interleukin-2 enhancer function bind a novel Ets-related protein, Elf-1.
The recent definition of a consensus DNA binding sequence for the Ets family of transcription factors has allowed the identification of potential Ets binding sites in the promoters and enhancers of many inducible T-cell genes.
Within the human enhancer, these two sites are located within the previously defined DNase I footprints, NFAT-1 and NFIL-2B, respectively.
Electrophoretic mobility shift and methylation interference analyses demonstrated that EBS1 and EBS2 are essential for the formation of the NFAT-1 and NFIL-2B nuclear protein complexes.
Two well-characterized Ets family members, Ets-1 and Ets-2, are reciprocally expressed during T-cell activation.
Surprisingly, however, neither of these proteins bound in vitro to EBS1 or EBS2.
We therefore screened a T-cell cDNA library under low-stringency conditions with a probe from the DNA binding domain of Ets-1 and isolated a novel Ets family member, Elf-1.
Elf-1 contains a DNA binding domain that is nearly identical to that of E74, the ecdysone-inducible Drosophila transcription factor required for metamorphosis -LRB- hence the name Elf-1, for E74-like factor 1 -RRB-.
Elf-1 bound specifically to both EBS1 and EBS2 in electrophoretic mobility shift assays.
It also bound to the purine-rich CD3R element from the human immunodeficiency virus type 2 long terminal repeat, which is required for inducible virus expression in response to signalling through the T-cell receptor.
Taken together, these results demonstrate that multiple Ets family members with apparently distinct DNA binding specificities regulate differential gene expression in resting and activated T cells.
Human T cell activation through the activation-inducer molecule/CD69 enhances the activity of transcription factor AP-1.
The induction of the AP-1 transcription factor has been ascribed to the early events leading to T cell differentiation and activation.
We have studied the regulation of AP-1 activity in human peripheral blood T lymphocytes stimulated through the activation inducer molecule -LRB- AIM -RRB- / CD69 activation pathway.
Phorbol esters are required to induce AIM/CD69 cell-surface expression as well as for triggering the proliferation of T cells in conjunction with anti-AIM mAb.
Mobility shift assays showed that addition of anti-AIM mAb to PMA-treated T lymphocytes markedly enhanced the binding activity of AP-1 to its cognate sequence, the phorbol ester response element.
In contrast, anti-AIM mAb did not induce any change in the binding activity of NF-kappa B, a transcription factor whose activity is also regulated by protein kinase C..
The increase in AP-1-binding activity was accompanied by the marked stimulation of the transcription of c-fos but not that of c-jun.
Blockade of the DNA-binding complexes with an anti-Fos mAb demonstrated a direct participation of c-Fos in the AP-1 complexes induced by anti-AIM mAb.
These data provide the evidence that activation of human peripheral blood T cells through the AIM activation pathway regulate the activity of AP-1.
-LSB- Regulatory effect of insulin on glucocorticoid receptor in human peripheral leukocytes -RSB-.
The regulatory effect of insulin on the specific binding power of glucocorticoid receptor -LRB- GR -RRB- of human leukocytes was assessed by the unoccupied receptor sites capable of combining with -LSB- 3H -RSB- labelled dexamethasone measured at 3 and 24 h after incubation with various concentrations of insulin added to the medium.
After 3 h incubation the specific binding power with -LSB- 3H -RSB- Dex was decreased by 23.3 + / - 10.0, 32.2 + / - 13.2 and 54.3 + / - 9.2 % -LRB- P greater than 0.05, P greater than 0.05 and P less than 0.01 as compared with the control value of 100 in the absence of insulin -RRB- respectively in the presence of 20 mU/L -LRB- physiological testing concentration -RRB-, 200 mU/L -LRB- physiological upper limit -RRB- and 2,000 mU/L -LRB- pharmacological concentration -RRB- insulin in the incubation medium.
After 24 h incubation the decrease of these values increased respectively to 43.5 + / - 19.0, 56.1 + / - 20.7 and 80.2 + / - 15.5 -LRB- P less than 0.05, P less than 0.01 and P less than 0.01 compared with control -RRB-.
Stable expression of HB24, a diverged human homeobox gene, in T lymphocytes induces genes involved in T cell activation and growth.
A diverged homeobox gene, HB24, which is known to be induced following lymphocyte activation, was introduced into Jurkat T cells under the control of a constitutive promoter.
A number of genes known to be induced following T cell activation and associated with cell growth were increased in the transfectants, including c-fos, c-myc, c-myb, HLA-DR, lck, NF-kappa B, interleukin-2 and interleukin-2 receptor alpha -LRB- IL-2R alpha -RRB-.
Analysis of IL-2R alpha expression by transient transfection of IL-2R alpha promoter constructs into the HB24 transfectants revealed constitutive expression -LRB- about 60 % of phytohemagglutinin - and phorbol ester-activated Jurkat cells -RRB- that was dependent on the kappa B site in the IL-2R alpha promoter.
Furthermore, as a consequence of the increased HB24 mRNA levels, the Jurkat HB24 transfectants proliferated more rapidly than control cell lines.
Thus, stable expression of HB24 confers an activation phenotype on a human T cell line, implicating this gene as an important transcriptional factor during T cell activation and growth.
Corticosteroid receptors and lymphocyte subsets in mononuclear leukocytes in aging.
Plasma cortisol and aldosterone levels and number of related receptors in mononuclear leukocytes were measured in 49 healthy aged subjects -LRB- 62-97 yr -RRB- and in 21 adult controls -LRB- 21-50 yr -RRB-.
In all subjects, in addition, lymphocyte subsets were determined as an index of corticosteroid action.
The mean number of type I and type II receptors was significantly lower in aged subjects than in controls -LRB- respectively, 198 + / - 96 and 272 + / - 97 receptors/cell for type I, and 1,794 + / - 803 and 3,339 + / - 918 for type II receptors -RRB-.
Plasma aldosterone and cortisol and lymphocyte subsets were not different in the two groups.
All of the parameters were also tested for correlation, and a significant inverse correlation was found between age and type I and type II receptors when all subjects were plotted and between aged and CD4 and age and CD4/CD8 in the aged group.
Transcription factor activation and functional stimulation of human monocytes.
Activation of expression of genes encoding transcription factors : c-fos and c-jun and formation of AP1 transcriptional complex in human monocytes was investigated.
It was found that lipopolysaccharide induced strongly both c-fos and c-jun expression as well as AP1 formation.
Interferon gamma activated strongly c-fos and weakly c-jun and AP1.
Tumor necrosis factor induced slightly c-fos and had almost no effect on c-jun and AP1.
-LSB- Regulation of intracellular cholesterol synthesis in hypercholesterolemia by glucocorticoids -RSB-.
The rate of endogenous cholesterol synthesis in blood lymphocytes and skin fibroblasts from patients with type IIa hyperlipidemia was found to be increased in comparison with healthy donors.
The cells of hyperlipidemic patients had lowered levels of glucocorticoid receptors concomitantly with a partial loss of their sensitivity to glucocorticoids.
In fibroblasts from patients with hereditary hypercholesteremia of homozygous type the number of glucocorticoid receptors did not exceed 10 % of their content in normal cells.
The B cell-specific nuclear factor OTF-2 positively regulates transcription of the human class II transplantation gene, DRA.
The promoter of the major histocompatibility class II gene DRA contains an octamer element -LRB- ATTTGCAT -RRB- that is required for efficient DRA expression in B cells.
Several DNA-binding proteins are known to bind this sequence.
The best characterized are the B cell-specific OTF-2 and the ubiquitous OTF-1.
This report directly demonstrates that OTF-2 but not OTF-1 regulates the DRA gene.
In vitro transcription analysis using protein fractions enriched for the octamer-binding protein OTF-2 demonstrate a positive functional role for OTF-2 in DRA gene transcription.
In contrast, OTF-1-enriched protein fractions did not affect DRA gene transcription although it functionally enhanced the transcription of another gene.
In vivo transient transfection studies utilizing an OTF-2 expression vector resulted in similar findings : that OTF-2 protein enhanced DRA gene transcription, and that this effect requires an intact octamer element.
Together these results constitute the first direct evidence of a positive role for the lymphoid-specific octamer-binding factor in DRA gene transcription.
Kinetics of nuclear translocation and turnover of the vitamin D receptor in human HL60 leukemia cells and peripheral blood lymphocytes -- coincident rise of DNA-relaxing activity in nuclear extracts.
High affinity receptors -LRB- VDR -RRB- for 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol -LRB- calcitriol -RRB- are expressed in HL60 human leukemia cells and in low numbers in peripheral blood lymphocytes -LRB- PBL -RRB-.
HL60 cells, expressing some characteristics of promyelocytes, can be induced to monocytoid differentiation by calcitriol.
Specific nuclear translocation of -LSB- 3H -RSB- calcitriol/VDR was examined after exposure of whole cells to 10 -LRB- -9 -RRB- M/l calcitriol in the presence and absence of a 500-fold excess of unlabeled ligand and subsequent isolation of nuclei.
Specific nuclear translocation of -LSB- 3H -RSB- calcitriol/VDR was found to be time dependent reaching a maximum of approximately 2100 binding sites/nucleus after 3 h of incubation in HL60 cells, whereas a maximum of approximately 310 binding sites/nucleus was found after 3 h in PBL.
Pulse exposure of HL60 to radiolabeled hormone for 3 h followed by culture in medium without serum and calcitriol lead to nuclear retention of approximately 1600 radiolabeled VDR by 8 h and approximately 1000 VDR by 24 h..
Radiolabeled VDR disappeared from the nuclear compartment with a halflife of approximately 30 min if cells were cultured with identical concentrations of unlabeled hormone after the pulse -LRB- pulse/chase-experiments -RRB-.
No difference of VDR retention in pulse and pulse/chase-experiments was seen in PBL, where VDR halflife was approximately 30 min.
No specific translocation into the nuclear compartment was seen when isolated nuclei were incubated in -LSB- 3H -RSB- calcitriol.
Radiolabeled hormone/receptor complexes of nuclei isolated from cells exposed for 3 h to radiolabeled hormone -- in contrast to identical experiments with intact cells -- did not disappear from the nuclear compartment upon incubation of nuclei with identical concentrations of the unlabeled compound.
The activity of DNA relaxing enzymes -LRB- e.g..
topoisomerases I and II -RRB- in nuclear extracts was measured using a PBR 322-relaxation-assay.
Enhanced overall enzyme activity was found in nuclear extracts by 1 h after incubation with calcitriol -LRB- final ethanol concentration 0.0001 % v/v -RRB- in HL60 and PBL.
The enhanced activity disappeared after 2 h in PBL, whereas it was still enhanced by 4 h in HL60.
No effect was seen in ethanol treated controls.
Translocated hormone/receptor complexes compete for a limited number of specific nuclear binding sites.
Glucocorticoid receptor binding in three different cell types in major depressive disorder : lack of evidence of receptor binding defect.
1. In order to further understand the apparent glucocorticoid resistance in major depressive disorder, circadian variation in cortisol concentration, dexamethasone suppression and glucocorticoid receptor binding in mononuclear leukocytes, polymorphonuclear leukocytes and cultured skin fibroblasts were measured in rigidly defined major depressive disorder patients and non-depressed psychiatric controls.
2. Mononuclear leukocytes binding to glucocorticoid correlated significantly with polymorphonuclear leukocytes binding to glucocorticoid, but both determinations failed to differentiate major depressive disorder and control subjects.
3. Initial and post-dexamethasone in vitro fibroblast binding to glucocorticoid was not different between major depressive disorder and non-depressed control subjects.
4. The phenomenon of glucocorticoid resistance in major depressive disorder remains unexplained.
An 11-base-pair DNA sequence motif apparently unique to the human interleukin 4 gene confers responsiveness to T-cell activation signals.
We have identified a DNA segment that confers responsiveness to antigen stimulation signals on the human interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- 4 gene in Jurkat cells.
The human IL-4 gene, of 10 kilobases, is composed of four exons and three introns.
A cis-acting element -LRB- P sequence -RRB- resides in the 5' upstream region ;.
no additional DNA segments with enhancer activity were identified in the human IL-4 gene.
For further mapping purposes, a fusion promoter was constructed with the granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor basic promoter containing 60 base pairs of sequence upstream from the cap site of the mouse granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor gene and various lengths of the 5' upstream sequence of the IL-4 gene.
The P sequence was located between positions -79 and -69 relative to the transcription start site of the human IL-4 gene, and this location was confirmed by base-substitution mutations.
The plasmids carrying multiple copies of the P sequence showed higher responsiveness to the stimulation.
The binding protein -LRB- s -RRB- that recognize the P sequence of the IL-4 gene were identified by DNA-mobility-shift assays.
The P sequence does not share homology with the 5' upstream sequence of the IL-2 gene, even though surrounding sequences of the IL-4 gene share high homology with the IL-2 gene.
We conclude that a different set of proteins recognize IL-2 and IL-4 genes.
Reduced susceptibility to HIV-1 infection of ethyl-methanesulfonate-treated CEM subclones correlates with a blockade in their protein kinase C signaling pathway.
We have described the isolation of chemically induced CEM subclones that express CD4 receptors and bind soluble gp120, yet show a markedly reduced susceptibility to infection with HIV-1.
Two subclones were found to have an abnormal response to the protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- activator PMA.
PMA treatment induced CD3 and CD25 -LRB- IL-2R -RRB- receptors on the parental line and on other ethyl-methanesulfonate-derived subclones, but not on these two mutants.
Direct assays of PKC activity were conducted.
Total cellular PKC enzymatic activity was found to be normal in these subclones.
PMA-induced CD4 down-modulation occurred normally.
In addition, activation of c-raf kinase was normal.
Since HIV-1 long terminal repeat contains two functional nuclear factor kB -LRB- NF-kB -RRB- regulatory elements, we studied the ability of PMA to induce NF-kB binding activity by different assays.
Chloramphenicol acetyl transferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- assays using the HIV-1 -LRB- -139 -RRB- long terminal repeat-CAT construct showed no PMA induction of CAT activity in these subclones -LRB- unlike the parental line and other subclones -RRB-.
Okadaic acid, an inhibitor of phosphatases 1 and 2A, did not overcome the defect in these subclones.
Gel retardation assays, using a 32P-probe containing the HIV-1 NF-kB probe and nuclear extracts from PMA-treated cells, showed significantly reduced induction of nuclear NF-kB binding proteins in these two subclones compared with wild type CEM and a control subclone.
Deoxycholate treatment of cytoplasmic extracts from these subclones released much reduced NF-kB binding proteins from their cytoplasmic pools.
Thus, reduced levels of PKC-induced nuclear NF-kB activity in two T cell subclones did not affect their normal cell growth, but correlated with a pronounced reduction in their susceptibility to HIV-1 infection.
The promoter of the CD19 gene is a target for the B-cell-specific transcription factor BSAP.
The CD19 protein is expressed on the surface of all B-lymphoid cells with the exception of terminally differentiated plasma cells and has been implicated as a signal-transducing receptor in the control of proliferation and differentiation.
Here we demonstrate complete correlation between the expression pattern of the CD19 gene and the B-cell-specific transcription factor BSAP in a large panel of B-lymphoid cell lines.
The human CD19 gene has been cloned, and several BSAP-binding sites have been mapped by in vitro protein-DNA binding studies.
In particular, a high-affinity BSAP-binding site instead of a TATA sequence is located in the -30 promoter region upstream of a cluster of heterogeneous transcription start sites.
Moreover, this site is occupied by BSAP in vivo in a CD19-expressing B-cell line but not in plasma or HeLa cells.
This high-affinity site has been conserved in the promoters of both human and mouse CD19 genes and was furthermore shown to confer B-cell specificity to a beta-globin reporter gene in transient transfection experiments.
In addition, BSAP was found to be the only abundant DNA-binding activity of B-cell nuclear extracts that interacts with the CD19 promoter.
c-myc mRNA expression in minor salivary glands of patients with Sjogren 's syndrome.
c-myc protooncogene is implicated in the pathogenesis of B cell lymphoid malignancies and high levels of c-myc mRNA expression are observed in activated blood mononuclear cells.
Sjogren 's syndrome -LRB- SS -RRB- is characterized by lymphocytic infiltrates of exocrine glands, remarkable B cell hyperreactivity and a strong predisposition to B cell neoplasia.
In this study, c-myc protooncogene mRNA expression in 29 labial minor salivary gland biopsies from patients with primary SS and 15 controls was examined using in situ hybridization histochemistry.
Two 40mer oligonucleotides from the 1st and the 2nd exon of the c-myc gene, labeled with 35S, were used as probes.
To detect the origin of the cell hybridized with a c-myc probe, a combined immunochemistry in situ hybridization histochemistry technique was used.
High c-myc mRNA expression was detected on acinar epithelial cells.
c-myc did not correlate with c-fos and c-jun protein expression.
Stronger c-myc mRNA expression was detected in labial salivary glands of patients with longer disease duration -LRB- p less than or equal to 0.002 -RRB- and more intense T lymphocyte infiltrates -LRB- p less than 0.05 -RRB- although these patients revealed no hypergammaglobulinemia.
No correlation was observed between c-myc mRNA and B lymphocyte monoclonicity or lymphoma.
In conclusion, strong c-myc mRNA expression was observed on epithelial cells of labial salivary glands from patients with primary SS.
Eicosanoids in breast cancer patients before and after mastectomy.
In 19 patients with a malignant breast tumor, tumor tissue and blood were taken to determine the eicosanoid profile and platelet aggregation.
Values were compared with those of patients with benign tumors -LRB- n = 4 -RRB-, or undergoing a mammary reduction -LRB- n = 7 -RRB-.
Postoperatively, blood was taken as well in order to compare pre - and postoperative values.
Eicosanoids were measured in peripheral blood monocytes and mammary tissue by means of HPLC ;.
furthermore, TXA2, 6-keto-PGF1 alpha, and PGE2 were determined by RIA.
Differences in pre - and postoperative values of cancer patients were seen in plasma RIA values :.
PGE2 and 6-k-PGF1 alpha were significantly higher preoperatively when compared with postoperatively, however, such differences were seen in the control groups as well.
Compared to benign tumor or mammary reduction test material the eicosanoid profile of tissue obtained from malignant mammary tumors showed important differences.
Except for PGF2 alpha, HHT and 15-HETE no detectable quantities of eicosanoids were found in the non-tumor material, whereas in the malignant tumor material substantial quantities of a number of eicosanoid metabolites were present.
between menopausal status and ADP aggregation ; oestrogen receptor -LRB- + / - -RRB- and collagen and arachidonic acid aggregation, inflammatory cell infiltration score and arachidonic acid aggregation and fibrosis score and ADP aggregation.
The results show that eicosanoid synthesis in material from mammary cancer patients is different from that in benign mammary tissue.
The implications, in particular, in relation to future prognosis of the patient, remain obscure.
Every enhancer works with every promoter for all the combinations tested :.
A total of 27 combinations of different promoters and enhancers were tested by transfection into cultured cells.
We found that the relative efficiency of the enhancers is approximately the same, irrespective of the type of promoter used, i.e., there was no strong preference for any given enhancer/promoter combination.
Notably, we do not see particularly strong transcription when the immunoglobulin kappa enhancer -LRB- or the immunoglobulin heavy chain enhancer -RRB- is used to activate a kappa gene promoter.
Cytoplasmic domain heterogeneity and functions of IgG Fc receptors in B lymphocytes.
B lymphocytes and macrophages express closely related immunoglobulin G -LRB- IgG -RRB- Fc receptors -LRB- Fc gamma RII -RRB- that differ only in the structures of their cytoplasmic domains.
Because of cell type-specific alternative messenger RNA splicing, B-cell Fc gamma RII contains an insertion of 47 amino acids that participates in determining receptor function in these cells.
The insertion was not required for Fc gamma RII to modulate surface immunoglobulin-triggered B-cell activation.
Instead, regulation of activation involved a region of the cytoplasmic domain common to both the lymphocyte and macrophage receptor isoforms.
Oct2 transactivation from a remote enhancer position requires a B-cell-restricted activity.
Oct2 expression was unable to stimulate a multimerized octamer enhancer element in HeLa cells, however.
We have tested a variety of Oct2 isoforms generated by alternative splicing for the capability to activate an octamer enhancer in nonlymphoid cells and a B-cell line.
Our analyses show that several Oct2 isoforms can stimulate from a remote position but that this stimulation is restricted to B cells.
Moreover, this domain conferred enhancing activity when fused to the Oct1 protein, which by itself was unable to stimulate from a remote position.
The glutamine-rich activation domain present in the amino-terminal portion of Oct2 and the POU domain contribute only marginally to the transactivation function from a distal position.
Heterodimerization and transcriptional activation in vitro by NF-kappa B proteins.
The NF-kappa B family of transcription proteins represents multiple DNA binding, rel related polypeptides that contribute to regulation of genes involved in immune responsiveness and inflammation, as well as activation of the HIV long terminal repeat.
Furthermore, using DNA templates containing two copies of the PRDII domain linked to the rabbit beta globin gene, the purified polypeptides specifically stimulated NF-kappa B dependent transcription in an in vitro reconstitution assay as heterodimers but not as p50 homodimers.
Nuclear factor of activated T cells contains Fos and Jun..
The nuclear factor NF-AT -LRB- ref. 1 -RRB- is induced in T cells stimulated through the T-cell receptor/CD3 complex, and is required for interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- gene induction.
Here we report that the newly synthesized nuclear component of NF-AT is the transcription factor AP-1.
We show that the inducible nuclear form of NF-AT contains Fos and Jun proteins.
Furthermore, we identify a pre-existing NF-AT-binding factor that is present in hypotonic extracts of unstimulated T cells.
Studies on the biological activity of triiodothyronine sulfate.
Hepatic microsomes and isolated hepatocytes in short term culture desulfate T3 sulfate -LRB- T3SO4 -RRB-.
T3SO4 had no thyromimetic effect on the activity of Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - ATPase in human erythrocyte membranes at doses up to 10,000 times the maximally effective dose of T3 -LRB- 10 -LRB- -10 -RRB- mol/L -RRB-.
In GH4C1 pituitary cells, T3SO4 failed to displace -LSB- 125I -RSB- T3 from nuclear receptors in intact cells or soluble preparations.
Thus, T3SO4 was not directly thyromimetic in either an isolated human membrane system or a pituitary cell system in which nuclear receptor occupancy correlates with GH synthesis.
Thyroid hormones inhibit -LSB- 3H -RSB- glycosaminoglycan synthesis by cultured human dermal fibroblasts, and T3SO4 displayed about 0.5 % the activity of T3 at 72 h..
Human fibroblasts contained roughly the same level of microsomal p-nitrophenyl sulfatase activity as that previously observed in hepatic microsomes.
The mechanism of action of cyclosporin A and FK506.
CsA and FK506 are powerful suppressors of the immune system, most notably of T cells.
They act at a point in activation that lies between receptor ligation and the transcription of early genes.
they bind endogenous intracellular receptors, the immunophilins, and the resulting complex targets the protein phosphatase, calcineurin, to exert the immunosuppressive effect.
Interferon-gamma potentiates the antiviral activity and the expression of interferon-stimulated genes induced by interferon-alpha in U937 cells.
Binding of type I interferon -LRB- IFN-alpha/beta -RRB- to specific receptors results in the rapid transcriptional activation, independent of protein synthesis, of IFN-alpha-stimulated genes -LRB- ISGs -RRB- in human fibroblasts and HeLa and Daudi cell lines.
The binding of ISGF3 -LRB- IFN-stimulated gene factor 3 -RRB- to the conserved IFN-stimulated response element -LRB- ISRE -RRB- results in transcriptional activation.
This factor is composed of a DNA-binding protein -LRB- ISGF3 gamma -RRB-, which normally is present in the cytoplasm, and other IFN-alpha-activated proteins which preexist as latent cytoplasmic precursors -LRB- ISGF3 alpha -RRB-.
We have found that ISG expression in the monocytic U937 cell line differs from most cell lines previously examined.
U937 cells express both type I and type II IFN receptors, but only IFN-alpha is capable of inducing antiviral protection in these cells.
Pretreatment with IFN-gamma potentiates the IFN-alpha-induced protection, but IFN-gamma alone does not have any antiviral activity.
ISG15 mRNA accumulation in U937 cells is not detectable before 6 h of IFN-alpha treatment, peaks at 24 h, and requires protein synthesis.
Although IFN-gamma alone does not induce ISG expression, IFN-gamma pretreatment markedly increases and hastens ISG expression and transcriptional induction.
Nuclear extracts assayed for the presence of ISRE binding factors by electrophoretic mobility shift assays show that ISGF3 is induced by IFN-alpha within 6 h from undetectable basal levels in untreated U937 cells.
Activation of ISGF3 alpha, the latent component of ISGF3, occurs rapidly.
Specific NF-kappa B subunits act in concert with Tat to stimulate human immunodeficiency virus type 1 transcription.
NF-kappa B is a protein complex which functions in concert with the tat-I gene product to stimulate human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- transcription.
Little effect was observed with 50-kDa forms of p105 NF-kappa B or rel, in combination with p65 or full-length c-rel, which do not stimulate the HIV enhancer in these cells.
-LSB- Plasma cortisol concentration and blood leukocyte content of glucocorticoid receptors in patients with deficiency-cold vs deficiency-heat syndromes -RSB-.
Plasma cortisol concentration and blood leukocyte content of glucocorticoid receptors -LRB- GCR -RRB- were assayed in 20 patients with deficiency syndromes, 10 cold in property -LRB- deficiency-cold -RRB-, the other 10 hot in property -LRB- deficiency-heat -RRB-, and also in 10 healthy individuals as normal control for the purpose of investigating the nature of cold and heat syndromes.
As a result, the cases of deficiency-cold syndrome -LRB- DCS -RRB- had a normal concentration of plasma cortisol but a lowered content of GCR in leukocytes when compared with the normal control -LRB- P less than 0.05 -RRB- ;.
the cases of deficiency-heat syndrome -LRB- DHS -RRB- had a higher concentration of plasma cortisol than the normal control -LRB- P less than 0.05 -RRB- and a slightly higher content of GCR in leukocytes.
It was concluded that the DCS is characterized by diminished biological effects of adrenocortical activity, while the DHS, by augmented biological effects of adrenocortical activity.
Protein kinase C activation and protooncogene expression in differentiation/retrodifferentiation of human U-937 leukemia cells.
Human U-937 leukemia cells differentiate along the monocytic lineage following 3-day exposures to 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB-.
This induction of differentiation is accompanied by adherence and loss of proliferation, as well as expression/repression of differentiation-associated genes.
Long term culture of TPA-differentiated U-937 cells in the absence of phorbol ester for 32-36 days resulted in a process of retrodifferentiation.
The retrodifferentiated cells detached from the substrate and reinitiated proliferation.
Other cellular parameters, such as glycosidase activities, cytokine release, and filament expression, returned to levels similar to that observed in uninduced cells.
Treatment of U-937 cells with TPA resulted in a rapid translocation of protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- from the cytosol to cell membrane fractions within 2-8 min.
Increased levels of membrane-associated PKC activity persisted until 17-29 days.
However, longer periods of incubation were associated with a return to the distribution of PKC in control cells.
Activation of PKC has been implicated in the regulation of certain immediate early response genes, and in the present studies, TPA rapidly induced c-fos and c-jun gene expression.
Levels of c-fos and c-jun transcripts remained elevated during periods of PKC activation and also returned to levels observed in control cells by 30-36 days, when the cells entered retrodifferentiation.
Staurosporine, a nonspecific inhibitor of PKC, partially blocked TPA-induced adherence and growth inhibition and concomitantly prevented TPA-induced c-fos and c-jun gene expression. -LRB- ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS -RRB-.
Activation of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 enhancer is not dependent on NFAT-1.
Activation by the T-cell antigen receptor is minimal in Jurkat cells and is mediated by the kappa B sites.
The development of functionally responsive T cells.
The work reviewed in this article separates T cell development into four phases.
Second is a controlled phase of TCR gene rearrangement.
The details of the regulatory mechanism that selects particular loci for rearrangement are still not known.
In the TCR alpha beta lineage, however, the final gene rearrangement events are accompanied by rapid proliferation and an interruption in cellular response gene inducibility.
Third is the complex process of selection.
Whereas peripheral T cells can undergo forms of positive selection -LRB- by antigen-driven clonal expansion -RRB- and negative selection -LRB- by abortive stimulation leading to anergy or death -RRB-, neither is exactly the same phenomenon that occurs in the thymic cortex.
The genes that need to be induced for this response are not yet identified, but it is unquestionably a form of activation.
It is interesting that in humans and rats, cortical thymocytes undergoing negative selection can still induce IL-2R alpha expression and even be rescued in vitro, if exogenous IL-2 is provided.
Sentman et al., 1991 ; Strasser et al., 1991 -RRB-.
Even so, medullary thymocytes remain at least partially susceptible to negative selection even as they continue to mature.
SRC-related proto-oncogenes and transcription factors in primary human T cells : modulation by cyclosporin A and FK506.
Activation of T lymphocytes induces transcription of genes encoding for lymphokines.
Interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- gene expression is controlled transcriptionally by the cooperative activity of specific trans-activating factors that bind to the IL-2 enhancer.
Cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB- and FK506 inhibit the production of IL-2 in T lymphocytes at the level of gene transcription.
A member of the src gene family, the lymphocyte-specific protein tyrosine kinase, p56lck, has been implicated in IL-2 production.
CsA was found not to inhibit lck gene expression, nor the activity of the lck gene product.
However, CsA and FK506 inhibit the appearance of DNA binding activity of factors that bind to the NF-AT and AP-1 sites in the IL-2 enhancer.
TAR-independent transactivation by Tat in cells derived from the CNS : a novel mechanism of HIV-1 gene regulation.
The Tat protein of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- is essential for productive infection and is a potential target for antiviral therapy.
Tat, a potent activator of HIV-1 gene expression, serves to greatly increase the rate of transcription directed by the viral promoter.
Much attention has been focused on the interaction of Tat with a specific RNA target termed TAR -LRB- transactivation responsive -RRB- which is present in the leader sequence of all HIV-1 mRNAs.
In this report we demonstrate that in certain CNS-derived cells Tat is capable of activating HIV-1 through a TAR-independent pathway.
A Tat-responsive element is found upstream within the viral promoter that in glial-derived cell lines allows transactivation in the absence of TAR.
Deletion mapping and hybrid promoter constructs demonstrate that the newly identified Tat-responsive element corresponds to a sequence within the viral long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- previously identified as the HIV-1 enhancer, or NF-kappa B domain.
DNA band-shift analysis reveals NF-kappa B binding activity in glial cells that differs from that present in T lymphoid cells.
Further, we observe that TAR-deleted mutants of HIV-1 demonstrate normal late gene expression in glial cells as evidenced by syncytia formation and production of viral p24 antigen. -LRB- ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS -RRB-.
Bcl-2 : a repressor of lymphocyte death.
The genes and mechanisms that control programmed cell death are currently the subject of intense study.
Here, Stanley Korsmeyer provides a brief overview of bcl-2, concentrating on its roles in B - and T-cell development and in oncogenesis.
Mitogen stimulation of T-cells increases c-Fos and c-Jun protein levels, AP-1 binding and AP-1 transcriptional activity.
We have analysed the effect of mitogenic lectins on c-Fos and c-Jun protein levels as well as on activator protein-1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB- binding and enhancer activity in Jurkat T-cells.
Both c-Fos and c-Jun protein levels were increased after Con A and PHA stimulation.
PMA, which directly activates PKC, mimicked the effect of the lectins on c-Fos and c-Jun, but elevation of either intracellular Ca2 + or cAMP levels had little or no effect.
The mitogen-induced increase of c-Fos and c-Jun immunoreactivity was inhibited by H-7, a kinase inhibitor with relatively high specificity for PKC, and less efficiently by H-8, a structurally related kinase inhibitor less active on PKC, but more active on cyclic nucleotide-dependent kinases.
Con A stimulation was found to increase both binding of AP-1 to the AP-1 consensus sequence, TRE, and AP-1 enhancer activity, in Jurkat cells.
PMA was also found to increase the AP-1 enhancer activity, whereas elevation of Ca2 + or cAMP had only minor effects.
Functional interaction between the two zinc finger domains of the v-erb A oncoprotein.
The v-erb A oncogene of avian erythroblastosis virus is a mutated and virally transduced copy of a host cell gene encoding a thyroid hormone receptor.
The protein expressed by the v-erb A oncogene binds to DNA and acts as a dominant negative inhibitor of both the thyroid hormone receptor and the closely related retinoic acid receptor.
The v-erb A protein has sustained two amino acid alterations within its DNA-binding domain relative to that of c-erb A, one of which, at serine 61, is known to be important for v-erb A function in the neoplastic cell.
We report here that the second alteration, at threonine 78, also plays an important, although more indirect, role :.
alteration of the sequence at threonine 78 such that it resembles that of c-erb A can act as an intragenic suppressor and can partially restore function to a v-erb A protein rendered defective due to a mutation at position 61.
Pax-5 encodes the transcription factor BSAP and is expressed in B lymphocytes, the developing CNS, and adult testis.
BSAP has been identified previously as a transcription factor that is expressed at early, but not late, stages of B-cell differentiation.
Biochemical purification and cDNA cloning has now revealed that BSAP belongs to the family of paired domain proteins.
BSAP is encoded by the Pax-5 gene and has been highly conserved between human and mouse.
An intact paired domain was shown to be both necessary and sufficient for DNA binding of BSAP.
Binding studies with several BSAP recognition sequences demonstrated that the sequence specificity of BSAP differs from that of the distantly related paired domain protein Pax-1.
During embryogenesis, the BSAP gene is transiently expressed in the mesencephalon and spinal cord with a spatial and temporal expression pattern that is distinct from that of other Pax genes in the developing central nervous system -LRB- CNS -RRB-.
Later, the expression of the BSAP gene shifts to the fetal liver where it correlates with the onset of B lymphopoiesis.
BSAP expression persists in B lymphocytes and is also seen in the testis of the adult mouse.
Okadaic acid is a potent inducer of AP-1, NF-kappa B, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha in human B lymphocytes.
Treatment of human B lymphocytes with an optimal concentration of okadaic acid, an inhibitor of phosphatases 1 and 2A, resulted in the induction of the transcription factor, AP-1 and a marked increase in NF-kappa B levels.
In contrast, no effect on the levels of the octamer binding proteins, Oct-1 or Oct-2, were found.
Since both AP-1 and NF-kappa B have been reported to be important in the induction of the tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- gene we examined the effects of okadaic acid on TNF-alpha mRNA levels.
Treatment with okadaic acid resulted in a striking increase in TNF-alpha mRNA transcripts within 1 h of stimulation and large amounts of TNF-alpha were released into the culture media.
Although okadaic acid provides a potent inductive signal for AP-1 and NF-kappa B it did not induce either B cell proliferation or immunoglobulin secretion.
Induction of the POU domain transcription factor Oct-2 during T-cell activation by cognate antigen.
Oct-2 is a transcription factor that binds specifically to octamer DNA motifs in the promoters of immunoglobulin and interleukin-2 genes.
All tumor cell lines from the B-cell lineage and a few from the T-cell lineage express Oct-2.
To address the role of Oct-2 in the T-cell lineage, we studied the expression of Oct-2 mRNA and protein in nontransformed human and mouse T cells.
Oct-2 was found in CD4 + and CD8 + T cells prepared from human peripheral blood and in mouse lymph node T cells.
In a T-cell clone specific for pigeon cytochrome c in the context of I-Ek, Oct-2 was induced by antigen stimulation, with the increase in Oct-2 protein seen first at 3 h after activation and continuing for at least 24 h..
Oct-2 mRNA induction during antigen-driven T-cell activation was blocked by cyclosporin A, as well as by protein synthesis inhibitors.
The activity of IL-1 was expressed as its ability to stimulate 3H-TdR incorporation in the thymocytes of C57 mice.
GR was determined by whole cell assay with 3H-Dex.
The results showed that the activity of plasma IL-1 in aged long-distance runner was 209 %, 223 % and 145 % of the control at 14.7-18 .7, 3.8-7 .0 and 1.5-2 .6 KD fractions.
The GR in peripheral blood leukocytes in aged runner was 65 % of the control.
Transcription factor AP-2 activates gene expression of HTLV-I.
The HTLV-I LTR contains three conserved regulatory elements known as 21 base pair repeats which are required for stimulation of gene expression by the transactivator protein tax.
The A site in the 21 bp repeat has strong homology with previously described binding sites for the transcription factor AP-2.
We demonstrated that AP-2 mRNA was present in T-lymphocytes and that cellular factors from both non-transformed and transformed T-lymphocytes specifically bound to the consensus motif for AP-2 in each 21 bp.
To determine the role of AP-2 in the regulation of the HTLV-I LTR gene expression, we used an AP-2 cDNA in DNA binding and transient expression assays.
Gel retardation and methylation interference studies revealed that bacterially produced AP-2 bound specifically and with high affinity to all three 21 bp repeats, and that it required the core sequence AGGC for specific binding.
Binding of AP-2 prevented the subsequent binding of members of the CREB/ATF family to an adjacent regulatory motif in the 21 bp repeat.
Transfection of an AP-2 expression construct into T-lymphocytes activated gene expression from the HTLV-I LTR.
At least two 21 bp repeats were required for high levels of AP-2 activation and mutagenesis of the AP-2 consensus binding sequences in the 21 bp repeats eliminate this activation. -LRB- ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS -RRB-.
Cell cycle-dependent initiation and lineage-dependent abrogation of GATA-1 expression in pure differentiating hematopoietic progenitors.
The programmed activation/repression of transcription factors in early hematopoietic differentiation has not yet been explored.
The DNA-binding protein GATA-1 is required for normal erythroid development and regulates erythroid-expressed genes in maturing erythroblasts.
We analyzed GATA-1 expression in early human adult hematopoiesis by using an in vitro system in which `` pure '' early hematopoietic progenitors are induced to gradual and synchronized differentiation selectively along the erythroid or granulocyte-macrophage pathway by differential treatment with hematopoietic growth factors.
The GATA-1 gene, though virtually silent in quiescent progenitors, is activated after entrance into the cell cycle upon stimulation with hematopoietic growth factors.
Subsequently, increasing expression along the erythroid pathway contrasts with an abrupt downregulation in the granulocyte-macrophage lineage.
-LSB- Age-related changes in glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors in lymphocytes of healthy persons and patients with hypertension -RSB-.
It has been found that the number of glucocorticoid receptors in lymphocytes of the peripheral blood of healthy elderly subjects increases, while the number of mineralocorticoid receptors decreases.
The mechanisms of hormone-receptor interactions in hypertension are activated :.
the number of glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid binding sites grows in hypertensive patients.
Still a more essential rise in the number of receptors is observed in mid-age hypertensive patients than in elderly ones.
In vivo footprint analysis of the HLA-DRA gene promoter : cell-specific interaction at the octamer site and up-regulation of X box binding by interferon gamma.
Analysis of the major histocompatibility complex class II gene promoter DRA has previously identified at least five cis-acting regions required for maximal expression.
Using in vivo genomic footprinting we identified interactions in B-cell lines at the octamer site and the Y, X1, and X2 boxes.
Class II antigen expressing T-cell lines maintained contacts identical to B-cell lines, while class II-negative T-cell lines exhibited no interactions.
In lymphoid cell lines, the octamer site is occupied and required for maximal expression.
In contrast, the class II-positive nonlymphoid glioblastoma cell line does not exhibit interactions at the octamer site despite the presence of the ubiquitous OTF-1 factor and an open binding site.
Thus, the DRA promoter discriminates against OTF-1 activation at the level of DNA binding in the glioblastoma line.
Interferon gamma induces class II expression in this glioblastoma cell line and, in parallel, up-regulates X1 and X2 box protein-DNA interactions, while all other interactions remain unchanged.
Simple derivation of TFIID-dependent RNA polymerase II transcription systems from Schizosaccharomyces pombe and other organisms, and factors required for transcriptional activation.
Resolution of whole cell extract through two chromatographic steps yields a single protein fraction requiring only the addition of TFIID for the initiation of transcription at RNA polymerase II promoters.
This approach allows the convenient generation of RNA polymerase II transcription systems from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, human lymphocytes, and Schizosaccharomyces pombe.
TFIIDs from all three organisms are interchangeable among all three systems.
The S. cerevisiae and Sch. pombe systems support effects of acidic activator proteins, provided a further protein fraction from S. cerevisiae is supplied.
NF-kappa B-dependent induction of the NF-kappa B p50 subunit gene promoter underlies self-perpetuation of human immunodeficiency virus transcription in monocytic cells.
The molecular mechanisms underlying the sustained nuclear translocation of NF-kappa B observed in U937 monocytic cells chronically infected with human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- were studied.
The activity of the promoter regulating the synthesis of the p105 precursor of the NF-kappa B p50 subunit was enhanced in these cells.
In contrast to the transient NF-kappa B activation induced by phorbol ester, the permanent NF-kappa B translocation induced by HIV infection was not dependent on PKC isoenzymes alpha and beta as shown by the use of a specific inhibitor -LRB- GF 109203X -RRB-.
This HIV-mediated mechanism results in a self-perpetuating loop of NF-kappa B production.
A microtitre assay system for glucocorticoid receptors : decreased receptor concentration in myocardial infarction.
A major difficulty in determination of glucocorticoid receptor sites is the very complicated assay procedure.
Therefore, we describe a microtitre assay system for glucocorticoid receptors which is a whole-cell competitive binding radioassay using -LSB- 3H -RSB- - dexamethasone as radioligand.
This modification of a previously described protocol simplifies and reduces laboratory work and allows assay reproducibility to be controlled more reliably.
On the first day of the disease, glucocorticoid receptor capacity was significantly decreased without alteration of the receptor-ligand affinity, whereas on days 4 and 12 the number of receptor sites was normal again.
This result fits well into the general observation of stress-induced down-regulation of immune responses.
The candidate oncoprotein Bcl-3 is an antagonist of p50/NF-kappa B-mediated inhibition.
The candidate oncogene bcl-3 was discovered as a translocation into the immunoglobulin alpha-locus in some cases of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemias.
The protein Bcl-3 contains seven so-called ankyrin repeats.
No biological function has yet been described for Bcl-3, but it was noted recently that Bcl-3 interferes with DNA-binding of the p50 subunit of NF-kappa B in vitro.
Here we demonstrate that Bcl-3 can aid kappa B site-dependent transcription in vivo by counteracting the inhibitory effects of p50/NF-kappa B homodimers.
Characterization of a new tissue-specific transcription factor binding to the simian virus 40 enhancer TC-II -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- element.
We have biochemically and functionally characterized a new transcription factor, NP-TCII, which is present in nuclei from unstimulated T and B lymphocytes but is not found in nonhematopoietic cells.
This factor has a DNA-binding specificity similar to that of NF-kappa B but is unrelated to this or other Rel proteins by functional and biochemical criteria.
It can also be distinguished from other previously described lymphocyte-specific DNA-binding proteins.
Selection of optimal kappa B/Rel DNA-binding motifs : interaction of both subunits of NF-kappa B with DNA is required for transcriptional activation.
Analysis of the p50 and p65 subunits of the NF-kappa B transcription factor complex has revealed that both proteins can interact with related DNA sequences through either homo - or heterodimer formation.
In addition, the product of the proto-oncogene c-rel can bind to similar DNA motifs by itself or as a heterodimer with p50 or p65.
However, these studies have used a limited number of known kappa B DNA motifs, and the question of the optimal DNA sequences preferred by each homodimer has not been addressed.
Using purified recombinant p50, p65, and c-Rel proteins, optimal DNA-binding motifs were selected from a pool of random oligonucleotides.
Alignment of the selected sequences allowed us to predict a consensus sequence for binding of the individual homodimeric Rel-related proteins, and DNA-protein binding analysis of the selected DNA sequences revealed sequence specificity of the proteins.
Contrary to previous assumptions, we observed that p65 homodimers can interact with a subset of DNA sequences not recognized by p50 homodimers.
Differential binding affinities were also obtained with p50 - and c-Rel-selected sequences.
Using either a p50 - or p65 - selected kappa B motif, which displayed differential binding with respect to the other protein, little to no binding was observed with the heterodimeric NF-kappa B complex.
Similarly, in transfection experiments in which the selective kappa B binding sites were used to drive the expression of a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter construct, the p65 - and p50-selected motifs were activated only in the presence of p65 and p50/65 -LRB- a chimeric protein with the p50 DNA binding domain and p65 activation domain -RRB- expression vectors, respectively, and neither demonstrated a significant response to stimuli that induce NF-kappa B activity.
A novel B cell-derived coactivator potentiates the activation of immunoglobulin promoters by octamer-binding transcription factors.
A novel B cell-restricted activity, required for high levels of octamer/Oct-dependent transcription from an immunoglobulin heavy chain -LRB- IgH -RRB- promoter, was detected in an in vitro system consisting of HeLa cell-derived extracts complemented with fractionated B cell nuclear proteins.
The factor responsible for this activity was designated Oct coactivator from B cells -LRB- OCA-B -RRB-.
OCA-B stimulates the transcription from an IgH promoter in conjunction with either Oct-1 or Oct-2 but shows no significant effect on the octamer/Oct-dependent transcription of the ubiquitously expressed histone H2B promoter and the transcription of USF - and Sp1-regulated promoters.
In light of the evidence showing physical and functional interactions between Oct factors and OCA-B, we propose a mechanism of action for OCA-B and discuss the implications of OCA-B for the transcriptional regulation of other tissue-specific promoters.
Single point estimation of glucocorticoid receptors in lymphocytes of normal subjects and of children under long term glucocorticoid treatment.
A single point assay of glucocorticoid receptors -LRB- GR -RRB- in human lymphocytes based on the measurement of specific dexamethasone binding has been developed and compared with a common multi-point Scatchard analysis.
The assay conditions-concentration of the ligand 20 nmol/l, incubation time 2 h and the cell count 2-6 mil. cells/tube in the assay volume 0.25 ml were found to be optimal.
An attempt was also undertaken to use a cell harvester for the separation of cells from unbound ligand.
Though specifically bound dexamethasone measured by whole-cell assay and that using cell harvester correlated well, almost by one order lower values obtained with the latter method render it non-applicable for receptor quantitation.
The results from 9 healthy volunteers -LRB- average GR concentration 7131 + / - 1256 sites/cell -RRB- correlated excellently with those obtained by the Scatchard analysis.
The single point assay has been also applied for determination of GH in 10 children treated with large doses of prednisone.
The average values from healthy volunteers did not differ significantly from those found in these children, though much broader range was found in patients.
Activation of NF-kappa B by interleukin 2 in human blood monocytes.
We report here that interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- acts on human blood monocytes by enhancing binding activity of the transcription factor NF-kappa B to its consensus sequence in the 5' regulatory enhancer region of the IL-2 receptor alpha chain -LRB- p55 -RRB-.
Similarly, IL-2 activates NF-kappa B in the human monocytic cell line U 937, but not in resting human T-cells.
This effect is detectable within 15 min and peaks 1 h after exposure to IL-2.
Enhanced NF-kappa B binding activity is followed by functional activation in that inducibility of the IL-2 receptor alpha chain is mediated by enhanced NF-kappa B binding and that a heterologous promoter containing the NF-kappa B consensus sequence -LRB- -291 to -245 -RRB- of the IL-2 receptor alpha chain gene is activated.
In addition, IL-2 is capable of increasing transcript levels of the p50 gene coding for the p50 subunit of the NF-kappa B transcription factor, whereas mRNA levels of the p65 NF-kappa B gene remained unchanged.
Regulation of c-jun expression during induction of monocytic differentiation by okadaic acid.
The present work has examined the effects of okadaic acid, an inhibitor of type 1 and 2A protein phosphatases, on the regulation of c-jun expression during monocytic differentiation of U-937 leukemia cells.
The results demonstrate that okadaic acid treatment is associated with induction of a differentiated monocyte phenotype characterized by : -LRB- a -RRB- growth arrest ; -LRB- b -RRB- increases in Mac-1 cell surface antigen expression ; -LRB- c -RRB- down-regulation of c-myc transcripts ; and -LRB- d -RRB- induction of tumor necrosis factor gene expression.
This induction of monocytic differentiation was associated with transient increases in c-jun mRNA levels, which were maximal at 6 h..
Similar effects were obtained for the c-fos gene.
Run-on analysis demonstrated detectable levels of c-jun transcription in U-937 cells and that this rate is increased approximately 40-fold following okadaic acid exposure.
c-jun mRNA levels were superinduced in cells treated with both okadaic acid and cycloheximide, whereas inhibition of protein synthesis had little, if any, effect on okadaic acid-induced c-jun transcription.
The half-life of c-jun mRNA was similar -LRB- 45-50 min -RRB- in both untreated and okadaic acid-induced cells.
In contrast, treatment with both okadaic acid and cycloheximide was associated with stabilization -LRB- t 1/2 = 90 min -RRB- of c-jun transcripts.
Since previous studies have demonstrated that the c-jun gene is autoinduced by Jun/AP -1, we also studied transcription of c-jun promoter -LRB- positions -132 / +170 -RRB- - reporter gene constructs with and without a mutated AP-1 element. -LRB- ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS -RRB-.
Leukotriene B4 transcriptionally activates interleukin-6 expression involving NK-chi B and NF-IL6.
Leukotriene B4 -LRB- LTB4 -RRB- is a notable participant in inflammation and chemotaxis.
Here we report that LTB4 induces synthesis of interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -6 by human blood monocytes through transcriptional activation of the IL-6 gene.
Involvement of NF-chi B and NF-IL6 in induction of IL-6 transcription by monocytes was demonstrated using deleted forms of the IL-6 promoter.
Activation of the IL-6 promoter by LTB4 was not only associated with accumulation of the respective transcripts but resulted in synthesis of functional IL-6 protein as well.
In addition, LTB4 mediated transactivation of a heterologous promoter construct containing the NF-chi B or the NF-IL6 enhancer, but not the AP-1 enhancer.
-LSB- Effect of antihypertensive therapy with captopril on gluco - and mineralocorticoid receptors of peripheral blood lymphocytes in hypertensive patients of various age -RSB-.
Binding of 3H-dexamethasone and 3H-aldosterone by peripheral lymphocyte receptors was investigated in healthy persons and hypertensive patients before and after 2-week captopril treatment.
The number of glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid binding sites was increased in hypertensives vs normotensives.
The treatment with the ACE inhibitor captopril led to activation of hormone-receptor interactions.
There was a more marked rise of the number of receptors in middle-aged -LRB- 44-55 years -RRB- hypertensives vs elderly -LRB- 61-80 years -RRB- subjects after captopril treatment.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 Nef protein inhibits NF-kappa B induction in human T cells.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- can establish a persistent and latent infection in CD4 + T lymphocytes -LRB- W.C.Greene, N.Engl.J. Med .324:308 -317, 1991 ; S.M.Schnittman, M.C.Psallidopoulos, H.C. Lane, L.Thompson, M.Baseler, F.Massari, C.H.Fox, N.P.Salzman, and A.S.Fauci, Science 245:305 -308, 1989 -RRB-.
Production of HIV-1 from latently infected cells requires host cell activation by T-cell mitogens -LRB- T.Folks, D.M.Powell, M.M.Lightfoote, S.Benn, M.A. Martin, and A.S.Fauci, Science 231:600 -602, 1986 ; D.Zagury, J. Bernard, R.Leonard, R.Cheynier, M.Feldman, P.S.Sarin, and R.C. Gallo, Science 231:850 -853, 1986 -RRB-.
This activation is mediated by the host transcription factor NF-kappa B -LSB- G.Nabel and D.Baltimore, Nature -LRB- London -RRB- 326:711 -717, 1987 -RSB-.
We report here that the HIV-1-encoded Nef protein inhibits the induction of NF-kappa B DNA-binding activity by T - cell mitogens.
However, Nef does not affect the DNA-binding activity of other transcription factors implicated in HIV-1 regulation, including SP-1, USF, URS, and NF-AT.
Additionally, Nef inhibits the induction of HIV-1 - and interleukin 2-directed gene expression, and the effect on HIV-1 transcription depends on an intact NF-kappa B-binding site.
A novel Ets-related transcription factor, Elf-1, binds to human immunodeficiency virus type 2 regulatory elements that are required for inducible trans activation in T cells.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- and HIV-2 are structurally related retroviruses which both cause AIDS in humans.
The latent phases of both HIV-1 and HIV-2 infection have been shown to be disrupted by T-cell activation, a process that requires host cell transcription factors.
In the case of HIV-1, the transcription factor NF-kappa B is sufficient for inducible transcriptional activation.
In contrast, factors in addition to NF-kappa B are required to activate HIV-2 transcription in infected T cells.
In this report, we demonstrate that a novel Ets-related transcription factor, Elf-1, binds specifically to two purine-rich motifs in the HIV-2 enhancer.
Mutagenesis experiments demonstrated that these Elf-1 binding sites are required for induction of HIV-2 transcription following T-cell-receptor-mediated T-cell activation.
Moreover, Elf-1 is the only factor present in activated T-cell nuclear extracts that binds to these sites in electrophoretic mobility shift assays.
Glucocorticoid receptor in patients with lupus nephritis : relationship between receptor levels in mononuclear leukocytes and effect of glucocorticoid therapy.
We investigated the clinical significance of glucocorticoid receptor determination in 20 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus -LRB- SLE -RRB- who afterwards developed nephrotic syndrome.
Glucocorticoid receptor concentrations in mononuclear leukocytes -LRB- MNL -RRB- in these patients were comparable with those in both other patients with SLE and healthy persons.
Improvement in urinary protein excretion and in disease activity, which was scored according to the SLE Disease Activity Index system of the University of Toronto, closely related to the glucocorticoid receptor concentrations in MNL isolated from the corresponding patients.
Stable expression of transdominant Rev protein in human T cells inhibits human immunodeficiency virus replication.
The human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- Rev protein is essential for viral structural protein expression -LRB- Gag, Pol, and Env -RRB- and, hence, for viral replication.
In transient transfection assays, mutant forms of Rev have been identified that inhibit wild-type Rev activity and therefore suppress viral replication.
While all the M10-expressing cell lines remained infectable by HIV-1, these same cells failed to support a productive replication cycle when infected with a cloned isolate of HIV-1.
In addition, two out of three M10-expressing CEM clones were also resistant to highly productive infection by a heterogeneous HIV-1 pool.
Expression of M10 did not affect induction of HIV transcription mediated by the kappa B regulatory element or Tat.
Importantly, constitutive expression of Rev M10 did not alter the secretion of interleukin 2 in response to mitogen stimulation of EL-4 and Jurkat cells.
-LSB- Mechanism of action of steroid hormones. I. Estrogens -RSB-.
The steroid hormone are very versatile molecules :.
although they are related among them by their chemical structure, they have very diverse functions and including antagonic.
Their action mechanism is not completely cleared.
The estrogens participate in the regulation of practically all the reproductive and sexual events of the female, although the intracellular actions by which they take place are not well known and the proposed models do not adequately satisfy the questions.
Currently it is accepted the existence of a cytoplasmic and/or nuclear receptor, without explaining satisfactorily how the hormones come to the nucleus.
The purpose of this review is to analyze and concilliate the reported data on the mechanism of action of estrogens.
Estrogen binding sites in peripheral blood monocytes and effects of danazol on their sites in vitro.
2. These two types of estrogen binding sites existed in human peripheral blood monocytes.
3. Danazol bound to these sites in high concentration -LRB- 10 -LRB- -6 -RRB- M, clinical serum concentration during danazol therapy -RRB- and decreased the number of both sites.
Phorbol ester reduces constitutive nuclear NF kappa B and inhibits HIV-1 production in mature human monocytic cells.
NF kappa B is a potent mediator of specific gene expression in human monocytes and has been shown to play a role in transcription of the HIV-1 genome in promonocytic leukemias.
There is little information available on the response of NF kappa B to cytokines in normal human monocytes.
We have used a 32P-labeled oligonucleotide derived from human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- long terminal repeat, which contains a tandem repeat of the NF kappa B binding sequence, as a probe in a gel retardation assay to study this transcription factor.
Using this assay, we have detected NF kappa B in extracts of nuclei from normal human monocytes.
Treatment of normal monocytes with 12-0-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB- for 4-24 h caused the complete disappearance of NF kappa B from nuclear extracts of monocytes.
A similar result was obtained with the mature monocytic leukemia cell line THP-1.
The constitutive transcription factor SP1 was unaffected by addition of TPA.
The disappearance of NF kappa B from the nucleus was concentration dependent between 10 and 50 ng/ml of phorbol ester.
In THP-1 cells, TPA also induced a new, faster-migrating NF kappa B species not induced in monocytes.
Protein kinase C inhibitor staurosporine, but not cyclic nucleotide-dependent protein kinase inhibitor HA-1004, also dramatically reduced constitutive levels of nuclear NF kappa B..
Finally, TPA addition to monocytes infected with HIV-1 inhibited HIV-1 replication, as determined by reverse transcriptase assays, in a concentration-dependent manner.
These results are in striking contrast to the increase in nuclear NF kappa B and HIV-1 replication induced by phorbol esters in promonocytic leukemia cells U937 and HL-60, and emphasize the importance of studying cytokine regulation of HIV-1 in normal monocytes.
Ablation of transplanted HTLV-I Tax-transformed tumors in mice by antisense inhibition of NF-kappa B -LSB- published erratum appears in Science 1993 Mar 12 ; 259 -LRB- 5101 -RRB- :1523 -RSB-.
Mice transgenic for the human T cell leukemia virus -LRB- HTLV-I -RRB- Tax gene develop fibroblastic tumors that express NF-kappa B-inducible early genes.
In vitro inhibition of NF-kappa B expression by antisense oligodeoxynucleotides -LRB- ODNs -RRB- inhibited growth of these culture-adapted Tax-transformed fibroblasts as well as an HTLV-I-transformed human lymphocyte line.
In contrast, antisense inhibition of Tax itself had no apparent effect on cell growth.
Mice treated with antisense to NF-kappa B ODNs showed rapid regression of transplanted fibrosarcomas.
SCL and related hemopoietic helix-loop-helix transcription factors.
The helix-loop-helix -LRB- HLH -RRB- proteins are a family of transcription factors that include proteins critical to differentiation and development in species ranging from plants to mammals.
Five members of this family -LRB- MYC, SCL, TAL-2, LYL-1 and E2A -RRB- are implicated in oncogenic events in human lymphoid tumors because of their consistent involvement in chromosomal translocations.
Although activated in T cell leukemias, expression of SCL and LYL-1 is low or undetectable in normal T cell populations.
SCL is expressed in erythroid, megakaryocyte and mast cell populations -LRB- the same cell lineages as GATA-1, a zinc-finger transcription factor -RRB-.
However, in contrast to GATA-1, SCL is expressed in the developing brain.
Transcription of the hypersensitive site HS2 enhancer in erythroid cells.
In the human genome, the erythroid-specific hypersensitive site HS2 enhancer regulates the transcription of the downstream beta-like globin genes 10-50 kilobases away.
The mechanism of HS2 enhancer function is not known.
The present study employs RNA protection assays to analyze the transcriptional status of the HS2 enhancer in transfected recombinant chloramphenicol acetyltransferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- plasmids.
In nonerythroid HL-60 cells in which the HS2 enhancer is inactive, long enhancer transcripts are not detectable.
Splitting the HS2 enhancer between two tandem Ap1 sites abolishes the synthesis of a group of long enhancer transcripts and results in loss of enhancer function and transcriptional silencing of the cis-linked CAT gene.
Mutations in the Pit-1 gene in children with combined pituitary hormone deficiency.
Pit-1 is a pituitary-specific transcription factor that binds to and transactivates promoters of growth hormone and prolactin genes.
In three unrelated Japanese children with combined pituitary hormone deficiency, we identified three point mutations in the Pit-1 gene, Pro24Leu, Arg143Gln, and Arg271Trp, located on the major transactivation region, POU-specific domain, and POU-homeodomain, respectively.
Calcitriol : a hematolymphopoietrope ? -LSB- editorial -RSB-.
Sixty-six papers published between January 1956 and June 1991 were identified.
Forty-five of these reports are cited in this review.
No unifying hypothesis has yet emerged explaining this collection of data.
This paper provides a brief review of immune properties currently attributed to calcitriol.
Inhibition of anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody-induced T-cell proliferation by dexamethasone, isoproterenol, or prostaglandin E2 either alone or in combination.
1. The purpose of these studies was to investigate the modulation of the proliferation of human T cells obtained from peripheral blood by dexamethasone -LRB- DEX -RRB-, isoproterenol -LRB- ISO -RRB-, and prostaglandin E2 -LRB- PGE2 -RRB-.
The former two substances interact with T cells via the glucocorticoid and beta-adrenergic receptors respectively.
When occupied by their natural ligands, glucocorticosteroids and catecholamines, these receptors have a role in modulating T-cell function during stress.
During the inflammatory response increased levels of PGE2 bind to their receptors on T cells and thus alter responsiveness.
Proliferation of T cells was induced by immobilized anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody -LRB- mAb -RRB- in the presence or absence of an additional costimulatory signal delivered by anti-CD28 mAb.
2. Various physiologic concentrations of DEX, ISO, or PGE2 were added at the time of initiation of the cultures and subsequent proliferation of the unstimulated T cells was determined.
The results demonstrate that physiologic concentrations of all three of these agents inhibit the anti-CD3 mAb-induced proliferation of T cells.
3. Although DEX and PGE2 were equipotent in suppressing T-cell proliferation, ISO was much less effective.
Synergistic suppression of T-cell proliferation was observed when various concentrations of DEX and PGE2, but not DEX and ISO, were added to cultures.
This synergistic suppression could not be explained by an increase in cAMP accumulation in T cells stimulated with DEX and PGE2.
5. Finally, the addition of anti-CD28 mAb to anti-CD3 mAb-stimulated T cells overcame much of the suppression of proliferation induced by PGE2 or ISO but less so than that induced by DEX.
Targeted degradation of c-Fos, but not v-Fos, by a phosphorylation-dependent signal on c-Jun.
The proto-oncogene products c-Fos and c-Jun heterodimerize through their leucine zippers to form the AP-1 transcription factor.
The transcriptional activity of the heterodimer is regulated by signal-dependent phosphorylation and dephosphorylation events.
The stability of c-Fos was found to also be controlled by intracellular signal transduction.
In transient expression and in vitro degradation experiments, the stability of c-Fos was decreased when the protein was dimerized with phosphorylated c-Jun.
v-Fos protein, the retroviral counterpart of c-Fos, was not susceptible to degradation targeted by c-Jun.
Expression of c-fos, c-jun and jun B in peripheral blood lymphocytes from young and elderly adults.
The expression of c-fos, c-jun and jun B proto-oncogenes was studied in phytohemagglutinin -LRB- PHA -RRB- activated peripheral blood lymphocytes -LRB- PBL -RRB- from young and aged humans.
Specific mRNAs for c-fos and c-jun were detectable within 30 min after cell activation and reached maximal levels within 2 h..
Both c-fos and jun B mRNAs decreased to pre-activation levels within 6 h, while c-jun mRNA remained elevated.
In PHA-activated PBL, no age-related differences were observed in c-fos or jun B mRNA expression.
However, c-jun mRNA levels decreased significantly -LRB- 1.73 + / - 0.08 vs. 1.16 + / - 0.09 arbitrary units, P < 0.01, young vs. old -RRB- in PBL from elderly individuals activated with PHA.
No age-related differences were found in the expression of either of these two proto-oncogenes by anti-CD2 activated T cells.
Characterization of a novel T lymphocyte protein which binds to a site related to steroid/thyroid hormone receptor response elements in the negative regulatory sequence of the human immunodeficiency virus long terminal repeat.
We have previously identified a T lymphocyte protein which binds to a site within the LTR of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- and exerts an inhibitory effect on virus gene expression.
The palindromic site -LRB- site B -RRB- recognized by this protein is related to the palindromic binding sites of members of the steroid/thyroid hormone receptor family.
Here we characterize the T cell protein binding to this site as a 100 kD protein which is most abundant in T cells and which binds to site B as a 200 kD complex.
This protein is distinct from other members of the steroid/thyroid hormone receptor family including the COUP protein which has a closely related DNA binding specificity.
The regulation of the human tumor necrosis factor alpha promoter region in macrophage, T cell, and B cell lines.
The 1311-base pair human tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- alpha promoter region was fused to the luciferase -LRB- Luc -RRB- reporter gene and studied in a transient transfection system in three TNF producing cell lines, the U937 macrophage cell line, the MLA 144 T cell line, and the 729-6 B cell line.
This full length promoter construct can be induced by phorbol 13-myristate acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- in each of these cell types.
A PMA responsive element was localized to a region between -95 and -36 bp relative to the transcription start site.
Within this region, single AP-2 - and AP-1 - like consensus sequences were noted.
These AP-2 and AP-1 sites were each modified with a double point mutation.
A modest -LRB- 20-50 % -RRB- reduction in TNF promoter activity was observed with the AP-2 site mutation.
However, mutation of the AP-1 site markedly diminished both the basal and PMA-activated promoter activity.
Also co-transfections of the wild-type promoter construct with an AP-1 / c-jun expression vector resulted in augmented basal and PMA-induced promoter activity.
Redox status of cells influences constitutive or induced NF-kappa B translocation and HIV long terminal repeat activity in human T and monocytic cell lines.
We used phenolic, lipid-soluble, chain-breaking antioxidants -LRB- butylated hydroxyanisole -LRB- BHA -RRB-, nordihydroquairetic acid, or alpha-tocopherol -LRB- vitamin E -RRB- to show that peroxyl radical scavenging in unstimulated and PMA - or TNF-stimulated cells blocks the functions depending on NF-kappa B activation.
BHA was found to suppress not only PMA - or TNF-induced, but also constitutive, HIV-enhancer activity concomitant to an inhibition of NF-kappa B binding activity in both lymphoblastoid T -LRB- J.Jhan -RRB- and monocytic -LRB- U937 -RRB- cell lines.
This was also true for KBF -LRB- p50 homodimer -RRB- binding activity in U937 cells.
Secretion of TNF, the product of another NF-kappa B-dependent gene, was abolished by BHA in PMA-stimulated U937 cells.
The anti-oxidative effect of BHA was accompanied by an increase in thiol, but not glutathione, content in stimulated and unstimulated T cell, whereas TNF stimulation itself barely modified the cellular thiol level.
Rather, TNF and PMA can exert their effect only if cells are in an appropriate redox status, because prior modification toward reduction with BHA treatment prevents this activation.
Reticuloendotheliosis virus long terminal repeat elements are efficient promoters in cells of various species and tissue origin, including human lymphoid cells.
Promiscuous transcriptional activity of the reticuloendotheliosis virus -LRB- REV -RRB- long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- was detected in transient expression assays using LTR-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase-encoding gene chimeras, and cells of diverse species and tissue type ;.
levels of expression from two different REV LTRs correlate with reports of pathogenicity of the respective viruses in vivo.
REVs do not encode a transactivator targeted to the viral LTR, and cells infected with Marek 's disease virus, a herpesvirus with an overlapping host range, do not express factors that preferentially enhance expression from REV or avian sarcoma/leukemia virus LTRs.
Natural variants of the HIV-1 long terminal repeat : analysis of promoters with duplicated DNA regulatory motifs.
Sequence variation in the long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- region of HIV-1 was analyzed in viral isolates of 17 infected individuals.
Two classes of LTR size variants were found.
One HIV-1 variant was detected containing an additional binding site for the transcription factor Sp1.
Another LTR size variation was observed in four patients in a region just upstream of the NF-kappa B enhancer.
This variation was the result of a duplication of a short DNA sequence -LRB- CTG-motif -RRB-.
Cell culture experiments demonstrated that the natural variant with four Sp1 sites had a slightly higher promoter activity and viral replication rate than the isogenic control LTR with three Sp1 sites.
No positive effect of the duplicated CTG-motif could be detected.
In order to measure small differences in virus production more accurately, equal amounts of a size variant and the wild-type plasmid were cotransfected into T-cells.
The virus with four Sp1 sites did outgrow the three Sp1 virus in 35 days of culture and CTG-monomer virus outcompeted the CTG-dimer virus in 42 days.
A mechanism for the antiinflammatory effects of corticosteroids : the glucocorticoid receptor regulates leukocyte adhesion to endothelial cells and expression of endothelial-leukocyte adhesion molecule 1 and intercellular adhesion molecule 1.
Corticosteroids are the preeminent antiinflammatory agents although the molecular mechanisms that impart their efficacy have not been defined.
The endothelium plays a critical role in inflammation by directing circulating leukocytes into extravascular tissues by expressing adhesive molecules for leukocytes -LSB- e.g., endothelial-leukocyte adhesion molecule 1 -LRB- ELAM-1 -RRB- and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 -LRB- ICAM-1 -RRB- -RSB-.
Preincubation of endothelial cells with endotoxin -LSB- lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-, 1 microgram/ml -RSB- led to a 4-fold increase in subsequent adherence of polymorphonuclear leukocytes -LRB- P < 0.0001, n = 10 -RRB- to endothelial cells, an increase that was markedly attenuated when endothelial cells were treated with dexamethasone -LRB- IC50 < 1 nM, P < 0.0001, n = 6 or 7 -RRB- during preincubation with LPS.
Moreover, the steroid receptor agonist cortisol -LRB- 10 microM -RRB-, but not its inactive metabolite tetrahydrocortisol -LRB- 10 microM -RRB-, diminished LPS-induced endothelial cell adhesiveness.
Further evidence that the action of dexamethasone was mediated through ligation of corticosteroid receptors -LSB- human glucocorticoid receptors -LRB- hGRs -RRB- -RSB- was provided by experiments utilizing the steroid antagonist RU-486.
RU-486 -LRB- 10 microM -RRB-, which prevents translocation of ligated hGR to the nucleus by inhibiting dissociation of hGR from heat shock protein 90, completely aborted the effect of dexamethasone on adhesiveness of endothelial cells -LRB- P < 0.0005, n = 3 -RRB-.
Treatment of endothelial cells with LPS -LRB- 1 microgram/ml -RRB- stimulated transcription of ELAM-1, as shown by Northern blot analysis, and expression of membrane-associated ELAM-1 and ICAM-1, as shown by quantitative immunofluorescence -LRB- both P < 0.001, n = 9 -RRB-.
Dexamethasone markedly inhibited LPS-stimulated accumulation of mRNA for ELAM-1 and expression of ELAM-1 and ICAM-1 -LRB- IC50 < 10 nM, both P < 0.001, n = 4-9 -RRB- ;.
inhibition of expression by dexamethasone was reversed by RU-486 -LRB- both P < 0.005, n = 4-6 -RRB-.
As in the adhesion studies, cortisol but not tetrahydrocortisol inhibited expression of ELAM-1 and ICAM-1 -LRB- both P < 0.005, n = 3 or 4 -RRB-.
In contrast, sodium salicylate -LRB- 1 mM -RRB- inhibited neither adhesion nor expression of these adhesion molecules.
Membrane receptors for aldosterone : a novel pathway for mineralocorticoid action.
Rapid nongenomic in vitro effects of aldosterone on intracellular electrolytes, cell volume, and Na -LRB- + -RRB- - H + antiport have been found in human mononuclear leukocytes -LRB- HML -RRB-.
Binding of 125I-labeled aldosterone to plasma membranes of HML shares important features with these functional data.
This includes a very low apparent dissociation constant -LRB- Kd -RRB- of 0.1 nM for both aldosterone and the effect on the Na -LRB- + -RRB- - H -LRB- + -RRB- - antiport, a high turnover rate, and the almost exclusive binding selectivity for aldosterone.
Dexamethasone, RU 26988, corticosterone, ouabain, amiloride, and 18-hydroxyprogesterone were inactive as ligands.
Deoxycorticosterone acetate had an intermediate activity with an apparent Kd of 100 nM.
These findings are the first to demonstrate membrane binding of aldosterone being compatible with major aspects of its nongenomic effects.
Expression of tal-1 and GATA-binding proteins during human hematopoiesis.
Tal-1 rearrangements are associated with nearly 30 % of human T acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
We investigated the pattern of tal-1 expression in purified human hematopoietic cells by in situ hybridization and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction analysis.
Both methods demonstrated that the tal-1 gene is expressed in megakaryocytes and erythroblasts as well as in basophilic granulocytes.
Because the GATA-1 gene is known to transactivate several genes specific for the erythroid, megakaryocytic, and mastocytic/basophilic lineages, we studied GATA-1 expression in these purified hematopoietic cells.
We found that GATA-1 and tal-1 genes are coexpressed in these three lineages.
Remarkably, the expression of both genes is downmodulated during erythroid and megakaryocytic terminal maturation.
In immature hematopoietic cells, tal-1 and GATA-1 genes are coexpressed in committed progenitors cells -LRB- CD34 + / CD38 -LRB- 2 + -RRB- -RRB-, whereas they are not detectable in the most primitive cells -LRB- CD34 -LRB- 2 + -RRB- / CD38 - -RRB-.
In contrast, GATA-2 is strongly expressed in both most primitive and committed progenitors cells, whereas GATA-3 is mostly detected in most primitive ones.
Activation of lymphokine genes in T cells : role of cis-acting DNA elements that respond to T cell activation signals.
Activation of T cells is initiated by the recognition of antigen on antigen presenting cells to exert the effector functions in immune and inflammatory responses.
Two types of helper T cell -LRB- Th -RRB- clones -LRB- Th1 and Th2 -RRB- are defined on the basis of different patterns of cytokine -LRB- lymphokine -RRB- secretion.
They determine the outcome of an antigenic response toward humoral or cell-mediated immunity.
Although lymphokine genes are coordinately regulated upon antigen stimulation, they are regulated by the mechanisms common to all as well as those which are unique to each gene.
For most lymphokine genes, a combination of phorbol esters -LRB- phorbol 12-myristate 13 acetate, PMA -RRB- and calcium ionophores -LRB- A23187 -RRB- is required for their maximal induction.
Yet phorbol ester alone or calcium ionophore alone produce several lymphokines.
The production of the granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB- is completely dependent on the two signals.
We have previously found a cis-acting region spanning the GM-CSF promoter region -LRB- positions -95 to +27 -RRB- that confers inducibility to reporter genes in transient transfection assays.
Further analysis identified three elements required for efficient induction, referred to as GM2, GC-box and conserved lymphokine element -LRB- CLE0 -RRB-.
GM2 defines a binding site for protein -LRB- s -RRB- whose binding is inducible by PMA.
One protein, NF-GM2 is similar to the transcription factor NF-kB.
GC-box is a binding site for constitutively bound proteins.
CLEO defines a binding site for protein -LRB- s -RRB- whose optimum binding is stimulated by PMA and A23187.
Viral trans-activators such as Tax -LRB- human T cell leukemia virus-1, HTLV-1 -RRB- and E2 -LRB- bovine papilloma virus, BPV -RRB- proteins are other agents which activate lymphokine gene expression by bypassing T cell receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- mediated signaling.
The trans-activation domain of E2 and Tax is interchangeable although they have no obvious sequence homology between them.
Interleukin-3 expression by activated T cells involves an inducible, T-cell-specific factor and an octamer binding protein.
Interleukin-3 -LRB- IL-3 -RRB- is exclusively expressed by activated T and natural killer cells, a function that is tightly controlled both in a lineage-specific and in a stimulation-dependent manner.
We have investigated the protein binding characteristics and functional importance of the ACT-1-activating region of the IL-3 promoter.
This region binds an inducible, T-cell-specific factor over its 5' end, a site that is necessary for the expression of IL-3 in the absence of other upstream elements.
Over its 3' end, it binds a factor that is ubiquitously and constitutively expressed.
These characteristics make the ACT-1 site analogous to the activating ARRE-1 site in the IL-2 promoter.
Cell-type-specific transactivation of the parathyroid hormone-related protein gene promoter by the human T-cell leukemia virus type I -LRB- HTLV-I -RRB- tax and HTLV-II tax proteins.
The human T-cell leukemia virus type I -LRB- HTLV-I -RRB- and HTLV-II Tax proteins are potent transactivators of viral and cellular gene expression.
Using deletion mutants, the downstream parathyroid hormone-related protein -LRB- PTHrP -RRB- promoter is shown to be responsive to both HTLV-I and HTLV-II Tax as well as the AP1/c-jun proto-oncogene.
Transactivation of PTHrP by Tax was seen in T cells but not in B-cell lines or fibroblasts.
A carboxy terminal Tax deletion mutant was deficient in transactivation of both the PTHrP and IL2R alpha promoters but not the HTLV-I long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB-.
Exogenous provision of NFkB rescued IL2R alpha expression but not the PTHrP promoter.
Ras oncogene transformation of human B lymphoblasts is associated with lymphocyte activation and with a block of differentiation.
The p21ras small GTP binding proteins participate in signal transduction from cell surface receptors and affect neoplastic transformation and development in many different cell types.
In the present study, we examined the relationship between ras transformation and differentiation of human B lymphocytes.
We show that the constitutive expression of the T24 Ha-ras oncogene in EBV-immortalized B lymphoblasts was associated with the induction of the interleukin 2 receptor alpha subunit, with an impaired immunoglobulin gene expression, altered adhesion properties and increased survival in serum-free medium.
The ras-transformed lymphocytes displayed a fully functional IL-2r, as assessed by c-fos induction following treatment with IL-2 ; nevertheless, they were not growth stimulated by this lymphokine.
Somewhat unexpectedly, the constitutive p21ras activity did not cause an increased DNA binding of transcription factors PEA1 -LRB- AP1 -RRB-, PEA3, Oct-2 or NF-kB.
Interleukin-4 inhibits the lipopolysaccharide-induced expression of c-jun and c-fos messenger RNA and activator protein-1 binding activity in human monocytes.
We studied the effect of interleukin-4 -LRB- IL-4 -RRB- on the lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- induction of two immediate early genes c-fos and c-jun.
These genes encode proteins that form the dimeric complex activator protein-1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB-, which is active as a transcriptional factor.
Maximal accumulation of either c-fos and c-jun messenger RNA -LRB- mRNA -RRB- occurred 30 minutes after LPS addition.
When cells were treated with IL-4 for 5 hours before LPS activation, both the c-fos and the c-jun mRNA expression was decreased.
The inhibition of c-fos and c-jun expression by IL-4 in LPS-treated cells was shown to be due to a lower transcription rate of the c-fos and c-jun genes.
IL-4 did not affect the stability of the c-fos and c-jun transcripts.
Finally, using electrophoretic mobility shift assays, evidence was obtained that IL-4 inhibits LPS-induced expression of AP-1 protein.
The zinc finger transcription factor Egr-1 is essential for and restricts differentiation along the macrophage lineage.
We have isolated cDNA clones of myeloid differentiation primary response -LRB- MyD -RRB- genes, activated in the absence of de novo protein synthesis following induction for differentiation along either the macrophage or granulocyte lineage in human myeloblastic leukemia HL-60 cells.
One cDNA clone of a primary response gene, expressed upon macrophage differentiation, encoded for Egr-1, a zinc finger transcription factor.
The Egr-1 gene was observed to be transcriptionally silent in HL-60 cells, but active in U-937 and M1 cells, the latter two being predetermined for macrophage differentiation.
Egr-1 antisense oligomers in the culture media blocked macrophage differentiation in both myeloid leukemia cell lines and normal myeloblasts.
Transcription factor GATA-1 and erythroid development.
In summary, we derived an experimental system that allows us to dissect the function of GATA-1 in red cell development at a genetic level.
We have established the essential nature of GATA-1 during both primitive and definitive erythropoiesis.
By ablating the expression of the endogenous GATA-1 gene, we are in a position to introduce a variety of constructs that harbor subtle modifications in flanking or protein-coding sequences.
We can now study regulatory regions and functional domains of the protein in the context of a true erythroid environment, experiments that have not been possible heretofore.
However, these cells have been impossible to generate given the requirement of GATA-1 for Epo receptor expression and red cell viability -LRB- C. Simon and S. Orkin, unpublished observations -RRB-.
If they can not, chimeric proteins can be tested to identify which amino acids distinguish the different family members.
How does GATA-1 regulate red cell genes like globin or the Epo receptor ?.
Is GATA-1 necessary for globin gene switching ?.
Photoaffinity labeling of plasma membrane receptors for aldosterone from human mononuclear leukocytes.
In the present paper plasma membranes from human mononuclear leukocytes were covalently photolabeled with a -LSB- 125I -RSB- - aldosterone derivative.
Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed significant aldosterone binding at a molecular weight of approximately 50000 Dalton which was absent with 1 microM cold aldosterone, but not cortisol in the binding media.
These data are the first to define the molecular weight of the membrane receptor for aldosterone.
Tyrosine phosphorylation is a mandatory proximal step in radiation-induced activation of the protein kinase C signaling pathway in human B-lymphocyte precursors -LSB- published erratum appears in Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1993 Apr 15 ; 90 -LRB- 8 -RRB- :3775 -RSB-.
Ionizing radiation triggers a signal in human B-lymphocyte precursors that is intimately linked to an active protein-tyrosine kinase regulatory pathway.
We show that in B-lymphocyte precursors, irradiation with gamma-rays leads to -LRB- i -RRB- stimulation of phosphatidylinositol turnover ; -LRB- ii -RRB- downstream activation by covalent modification of multiple serine-specific protein kinases, including protein kinase C ; and -LRB- iii -RRB- activation of nuclear factor kappa B..
All of the radiation-induced signals were effectively prevented by the protein-tyrosine kinase inhibitors genistein and herbimycin A..
Our report expands current knowledge of the radiation-induced signaling cascade by clarifying the chronological sequence of biochemical events that follow irradiation.
Comparison of a full-length cDNA sequence with the corresponding genomic sequence reveals an open reading frame of 326 amino acids, distributed across two exons.
Potential phosphorylation sites include the sequence PSPTSPT, which resembles an RNA polymerase II repeat reported to be a target of the cell cycle control kinase cdc2.
Comparison of the derived protein sequence with those of rodent homologs allows classification into three groups.
Group 1 contains G0S24 and the rat and mouse TIS11 genes -LRB- also known as TTP, Nup475, and Zfp36 -RRB-.
Members of this group have three tetraproline repeats.
Groups 1 and 2 have a serine-rich region and an `` arginine element '' -LRB- RRLPIF -RRB- at the carboxyl terminus.
Comparison of group 1 human and mouse genomic sequences shows high conservation in the 5' flank and exons.
G0S24 has potential sites for transcription factors in the 5' flank and intron ;.
these include a serum response element.
Alpha-lipoic acid is a potent inhibitor of NF-kappa B activation in human T cells.
Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome -LRB- AIDS -RRB- results from infection with a human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB-.
Incubation of Jurkat T cells -LRB- 1 x 10 -LRB- 6 -RRB- cells/ml -RRB- with a natural thiol antioxidant, alpha-lipoic acid, prior to the stimulation of cells was found to inhibit NF-kappa B activation induced by tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- 25 ng/ml -RRB- or by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- 50 ng/ml -RRB-.
The inhibitory action of alpha-lipoic acid was found to be very potent as only 4 mM was needed for a complete inhibition, whereas 20 mM was required for N-acetylcysteine.
The use of interferon-gamma-treated U937 cells in chemiluminescence assays to detect red cell, platelet and granulocyte antibodies of potential clinical significance.
The chemiluminescent -LRB- CL -RRB- response of interferon-gamma-treated U937 -LRB- IFN-U937 -RRB- cells to sensitized target cells has been used to detect red cell, platelet and granulocyte antibodies.
A clone of U937 cells was selected which expressed Fc receptor I -LRB- Fc gamma RI -RRB- and which, after incubation with IFN-gamma for 72 h, was capable of generating high levels of lucigenin-enhanced CL.
The CL responses of IFN-U937 cells and peripheral blood human monocytes to sensitized red cells, platelets or granulocytes were then compared.
Assays using monocytes or IFN-U937 cells were of comparable sensitivity for detection of antibodies against all three types of target cell.
In addition, the use of IFN-U937 cells reduced interassay variation and simplified assay performance.
In contrast, monocytes and IFN-U937 cells responded only weakly to red cells sensitized with either anti-D in sera from mothers of babies unaffected by HDN, or with antisera containing high titre antibodies with specificities not normally associated with significantly reduced red cell survival.
Activation of protein kinase C and elevation of cAMP interact synergistically to raise c-Fos and AP-1 activity in Jurkat cells.
We have earlier found that in Jurkat cells activation of protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- enhances the cyclic adenosine monophosphate -LRB- cAMP -RRB- accumulation induced by adenosine receptor stimulation or activation of Gs.
Here we have therefore examined the effect of the phorbol ester PMA -LRB- phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -RRB- which stimulates PKC and a combination of the adenosine receptor agonist NECA -LRB- 5' - -LRB- N-ethyl -RRB- - carboxamido adenosine -RRB- and forskolin to raise cAMP, on the levels of c-Fos and Jun and on the binding and transcriptional activity of the transcription factor, activator protein-1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB-.
PMA treatment caused a concentration - and time-dependent increase in both c-Fos and Jun immunoreactivity in contrast to cAMP elevation that had only a slight effect.
Both PMA and the combination of NECA and forskolin acted together either to increase -LRB- c-Fos -RRB- or decrease -LRB- Jun -RRB- protein levels as well as increasing AP-1 binding, as judged by gel-shift assay, and AP-1 transcriptional activity.
Furthermore there was a clear-cut synergy between the PKC stimulator and the cAMP elevating agents.
Human immunodeficiency viruses containing heterologous enhancer/promoters are replication competent and exhibit different lymphocyte tropisms.
The human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- type 1 long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- contains binding sites for nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- and the constitutively expressed transcription factor Sp1, both of which are highly conserved in HIV and simian immunodeficiency virus isolates.
To delineate the effects of these motifs on the replicative capacity of HIV and to explore the possibility of extending the virus host range, known heterologous enhancer/promoters were inserted into the HIV-1 LTR in place of the NF-kappa B and Sp1 binding sites.
The effects of these substitutions on viral replication in transfected HeLa cells and on HIV infection of human peripheral blood lymphocytes or continuous T-leukemia cell lines were evaluated.
HIVs in which the NF-kappa B/Sp1 enhancer plus the downstream TATA element were replaced with heterologous enhancer/promoters were also constructed.
Viruses containing the human cytomegalovirus immediate-early enhancer exhibited infectious kinetics similar to that of wild-type HIV in activated human peripheral blood lymphocytes and AA2 cells but replicated less efficiently in H9 and CEM cells.
Involvement of Alu sequences in the cell-specific regulation of transcription of the gamma chain of Fc and T cell receptors.
The Fc epsilon RI-gamma chains are expressed in a variety of hematopoietic cells where they play a critical role in signal transduction.
Here we have investigated the transcriptional regulation of the gamma chain gene by analyzing the 2.5-kilobase sequence upstream of the transcription start site.
This sequence contains a promoter specific to cells of hematopoietic lineage.
We have identified two adjacent cis-acting regulatory elements, both of which are part of an Alu repeat.
The first -LRB- -445 / -366 -RRB- is a positive element active in both basophils and T cells.
Thus, this Alu repeat -LRB- 90 % identical to Alu consensus sequences -RRB- has evolved to become both a positive and negative regulator.
A serum response element and a binding site for NF-Y mediate the serum response of the human thrombospondin 1 gene.
The expression of thrombospondin 1 -LRB- TSP 1 -RRB-, a member of the TSP gene family, is rapidly induced by growth factors.
We tested the ability of human TSP 1-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase constructs to respond to serum in stably transfected NIH-3T3 cells.
Two transcriptional elements in the TSP 1 promoter, a distal element at -1280 and a proximal element at -65, were required for the response of the human TSP 1 gene to serum.
The distal element contains the 5' - CC -LRB- A + T -RRB- 6GG-3' consensus sequence characteristic of a serum-response element -LRB- SRE -RRB-.
Deletions or mutations in this element reduced the serum response of the TSP 1 gene by 80-90 %.
In gel-shift assays, the -1280 element and the c-fos SRE cross-competed, whereas their functional and binding mutants did not.
The proximal element contains the sequence 5' - GGCCAATGGG-3', which closely resembles the consensus binding motif for the CCAAT-binding factor NF-Y -LRB- CBF, CP1, alpha CP1 -RRB-.
Deletions or mutations in this element also reduced the serum response by 80-90 %.
Methylation interference analysis of the -65 region identified a pattern of contacts with nuclear factors resembling that for NF-Y, and an NF-Y-binding site and the proximal TSP 1 element cross-competed in gel-shift assays, whereas their binding mutants did not.
Finally, an abbreviated TSP 1 promoter/5' - flank, containing the SRE - and NF-Y-binding sites, mediated a serum response that was close in magnitude to that of the parent promoter.
We conclude that the serum response of the human TSP 1 gene requires the coordinated function of an SRE - and NF-Y-binding site.
Suppression of a cellular differentiation program by phorbol esters coincides with inhibition of binding of a cell-specific transcription factor -LRB- NF-E2 -RRB- to an enhancer element required for expression of an erythroid-specific gene.
Induction by hemin increases, while induction with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB- represses, erythroid-specific gene expression in the human cell line K562.
We analyzed the effects of hemin or TPA induction on the binding and activity of transcription factors at a regulatory element found within the transcriptional regulatory sequences of many erythroid-specific genes.
TPA induction increases the binding of ubiquitous AP-1 factors to this element.
TPA induction inhibits the binding of the lineage limited transcription factor NF-E2 to this transcriptional control element.
Hemin induction of K562 cells does not facilitate the binding of NF-E2 to its recognition site.
Beyond this nonspecific increase in gene expression, hemin induction acts to increase the activity of the lineage limited transcription factor NF-E2.
The divergent effects of hemin and TPA on gene expression in K562 cells are mediated, in part, by their contrasting effects on the transcription factor NF-E2.
The interleukin 2 CD28-responsive complex contains at least three members of the NF kappa B family : c-Rel, p50, and p65.
Optimal activation of T cells requires at least two signals.
One signal can be delivered by the antigen-specific T-cell receptor, and the second signal is provided by the costimulatory molecule -LRB- s -RRB- delivered by the antigen-presenting cell.
CD28 is a T-cell surface molecule and stimulation through this protein plays an important role in delivering the second activation signal.
In this report, we show that in human peripheral blood T cells, CD28-mediated signal transduction involves the rel family proteins -- c-Rel, p50, and p65.
Treatment of peripheral blood T cells with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- and anti-CD28 monoclonal antibody -LRB- mAb -RRB- results in augmentation of nuclear c-Rel, p50, and p65, and this augmentation can occur in the presence of the immunosuppressant cyclosporin A..
It is also shown in this report that, in response to PMA/anti-CD 28 mAb or anti-CD3 / anti-CD28 mAb, c-Rel, p50, and p65 are associated with CD28-responsive element present in the promoter of the human interleukin 2 gene.
The functional significance of c-Rel involvement in the CD28-responsive complex is demonstrated by transient transfection analysis, where cotransfection of c-Rel augments the level of expression of a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene linked to the CD28-responsive element.
Expression of the Tat protein of HIV1 in human promonocytic U937 cells.
Numerous studies have shown that, upon HIV1 infection, human promonocytic U937 cells were induced to differentiate, as indicated, for example, by increased expression of adhesion molecules.
Indeed, this viral protein, which is essential for productive infection, has also been shown to display growth-stimulating properties and immunomodulatory activities.
In order to apprehend the role of the HIV1 tat gene in inducing the differentiation of HIV1-infected U937 cells, we have successfully introduced this gene into U937 cells by infecting them with retroviral particles transducing tat.
The effect of the Tat protein constitutively expressed by these cells upon their differentiation was then evaluated by looking for the expression of the c-fos and of the c-fms proto-oncogenes which are linked to the differentiation of myelomonoblastic cells.
Northern blot analysis revealed in these cells, an increase in the transcription of these two proto-oncogenes, and this increase was amplified after treatment with phorbol myristate acetate.
No such increase was observed in control U937 cells.
Dimerization of NF-KB2 with RelA -LRB- p65 -RRB- regulates DNA binding, transcriptional activation, and inhibition by an I kappa B-alpha -LRB- MAD-3 -RRB-.
Inducible expression of human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- is regulated by a cellular transcription factor, nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB-.
NF-kappa B is composed of distinct subunits ; five independent genes, NFKB1 -LRB- p105 -RRB-, NFKB2 -LRB- p100 -RRB-, RelA -LRB- p65 -RRB-, c-rel and relB, that encode related proteins that bind to kappa B DNA elements have been isolated.
We have previously found that NFKB2 -LRB- p49/p52 -RRB- acts in concert with RelA -LRB- p65 -RRB- to stimulate the HIV enhancer in Jurkat T-leukemia cells.
Here we examine the biochemical basis for the transcriptional regulation of HIV by NFKB2.
Using Scatchard analysis, we have determined the dissociation constants of homodimeric p49 and heterodimeric p49/p65 for binding to the HIV kappa B site.
p49 has a approximately 18-fold-lower affinity for the HIV kappa B site -LRB- KD = 69.1 pM -RRB- than does the approximately 50-kDa protein NFKB1 -LRB- p50 -RRB- derived from p105 -LRB- KD = 3.9 pM -RRB-.
In contrast, the affinity of heterodimeric NFKB2 -LRB- p49 -RRB- / RelA -LRB- p65 -RRB- for this site is approximately 6-fold higher -LRB- KD = 11.8 pM -RRB- than that of p49 alone.
Consistent with these findings, in vitro transcription was stimulated 18-fold by the addition of preformed, heterodimeric NFKB2 -LRB- p49 -RRB- / RelA -LRB- p65 -RRB- protein.
Transcriptional activation of the HIV enhancer was also subject to regulation by recently cloned I kappa B-alpha -LRB- MAD-3 -RRB-.
Functional activation of an HIV reporter plasmid by p49/p65 in transiently transfected Jurkat T-leukemia cells was also inhibited by coexpression of MAD-3.
-LRB- ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS -RRB-.
The human prointerleukin 1 beta gene requires DNA sequences both proximal and distal to the transcription start site for tissue-specific induction.
In these studies, we have identified DNA sequences and specific protein interactions necessary for transcriptional regulation of the human prointerleukin 1 beta -LRB- proIL-1 beta -RRB- gene.
A cell-type-independent lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- - responsive enhancer element located between -3757 and -2729 bp upstream from the transcription start site -LRB- cap site -RRB- consisted of at least six discrete subregions which were essential to the maximal induction by LPS in transfected monocytes.
When ligated to the proIL-1 beta cap site-proximal region -LRB- located between -131 to +12 -RRB-, both the proIL-1 beta and the simian virus 40 enhancer elements functioned more efficiently in monocytes than in HeLa cells, which are not normally competent for IL-1 beta expression.
Few known genes -LRB- IL-2, members of the IL-8 family, interferon-gamma -RRB- are induced in T cells only through the combined effect of phorbol myristic acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- and a Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - ionophore, and expression of only these genes can be fully suppressed by Cyclosporin A -LRB- CyA -RRB-.
Induction of the PILOT gene is detectable in human T cells 20 min following activation in the presence of cycloheximide and is fully suppressed by CyA.
The PILOT protein has a calculated M -LRB- r -RRB- of 42.6 kDa and contains three zinc fingers of the C2H2-type at the carboxyl-terminus which are highly homologous to the zinc finger regions of the transcription factors EGR1, EGR2, and pAT 133.
In contrast to T cells, in fibroblasts PILOT gene expression requires only one signal -LRB- PMA -RRB- and is not affected by CyA.
This observation directly demonstrates the existence of a Ca2 + signal-dependent regulatory element obligatory for expression of some genes in T cells but not in fibroblasts.
This differential expression model will be valuable in the dissection of the dual signal pathway in T cells and the effects of CyA upon it.
Human CD4 lymphocytes specifically recognize a peptide representing the fusion region of the hybrid protein pml/RAR alpha present in acute promyelocytic leukemia cells.
Fusion proteins present in leukemic cells frequently contain a new amino acid at the fusion point.
CD4 + lymphocytes, at both polyclonal and clonal level, recognized peptide BCR1/25 in an HLA-DR -- restricted fashion on presentation by autologous antigen-presenting cell -LRB- APC -RRB- or by APC expressing the HLA-DR11 restricting molecule.
Control peptides corresponding to the normal pml and RAR alpha proteins were not recognized.
One clone -LRB- DEG5 -RRB- also exerted a high and specific cytotoxicity against autologous cells pulsed with BCR1/25.
The autologous DE LCL containing a transduced pml/RAR alpha fusion gene and expressing a bcr1 type of the pml/RAR alpha hybrid protein induced the proliferation of DE anti-BCR1 / 25 T cell clones.
It is concluded that the bcr1 type-pml/RAR alpha fusion protein of APL contains an antigenic site, absent from the normal parent molecules and recognized by human CD4 + lymphocytes.
Characterization of the nuclear and cytoplasmic components of the lymphoid-specific nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NF-AT -RRB- complex.
The lymphoid-specific transcription complex, NF-AT, is involved in early gene activation in T cells and is assembled from a pre-existing, T cell restricted cytoplasmic factor and an inducible ubiquitous nuclear component within 30 min after activation through the antigen receptor.
Recent studies have implicated the family of AP1 factors as components of the murine NF-AT complex.
Evidence is provided here that the nuclear component of human NF-AT contains the phorbol ester-inducible transcription factor AP1 -LRB- Jun/Fos -RRB-.
We further characterize which AP1 family members can assume this role.
Antisera to Fos inhibits NF-AT DNA binding as does an oligonucleotide containing a binding site for AP1.
Constitutive expression in vivo of Fos, and to a lesser extent Fra-1, eliminates the requirement for phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- stimulation, leaving NF-AT-directed transcription responsive to calcium ionophore alone.
NF-AT DNA binding can be reconstituted in vitro using semi-purified AP1 proteins mixed with cytosol from T lymphocytes.
The c-rel protooncogene product represses NF-kappa B p65-mediated transcriptional activation of the long terminal repeat of type 1 human immunodeficiency virus.
The long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- of the type 1 human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- and the 5' regulatory region of the gene encoding the interleukin 2 receptor alpha subunit -LRB- IL-2R alpha -RRB- share functional kappa B enhancer elements involved in the regulation of these inducible transcription units during T-cell activation.
These kappa B enhancer elements are recognized by a structurally related family of interactive proteins that includes p50, p65, and the product of the c-rel protooncogene -LRB- c-Rel -RRB-.
Recent biochemical studies have shown that p65 and p50 form the prototypical NF-kappa B complex, which is rapidly translocated from the cytoplasm to the nucleus during T-cell activation.
We now demonstrate that nuclear expression of human c-Rel, which is induced by either phorbol ester or tumor necrosis factor alpha with delayed kinetics relative to p65, markedly represses p65-mediated activation of these transcription units.
Protease treatment of nuclear extracts distinguishes between class II MHC X1 box DNA-binding proteins in wild-type and class II-deficient B cells.
The X box region is critical for directing the expression of class II major histocompatibility complex genes in B lymphocytes.
Although several class II promoter-specific DNA binding factors have been described, only the X box region factor, RFX, shows a genetic correlation with class II expression, being deficient in some B cell lines derived from patients with class II-deficient congenital immunodeficiency.
To further evaluate the role of X box DNA-binding proteins in class II gene expression, the role of the X box region was examined in both class II-positive and - negative lymphoid cells.
In addition to the wild-type B cell line Raji, two class II transcriptional mutant cell lines, SJO and RJ2 .2.5, and Jurkat, a class II negative T cell line, were examined.
The binding activity of the X1 box DNA-binding protein RFX was examined and found to be present in wild-type B cells and the mutant RJ2 .2.5 but was absent in SJO and Jurkat.
However, other X1 box-specific activities were detected in all these cell lines.
One of these cleaved products -LRB- band 1 pk -RRB- correlates with RFX activity.
A similar comparison with protease-treated extracts prepared from Jurkat cells demonstrated the presence of the band 1pk activity despite an absence of the native RFX activity.
In contrast, protease treatment and analysis of SJO extracts showed no detectable levels of the band 1pk activity.
These results demonstrate that multiple X1 box-specific DNA-binding activities exist in all lymphoid cells, but the presence of an actively binding RFX species correlates with class II transcription.
Replication of type 1 human immunodeficiency viruses containing linker substitution mutations in the -201 to -130 region of the long terminal repeat.
In previous transfection analyses using the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene system, we determined that linker substitution -LRB- LS -RRB- mutations between -201 and -130 -LRB- relative to the transcription start site -RRB- of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- caused moderate decreases in LTR transcriptional activity in a T-cell line -LRB- S.L.Zeichner, J.Y.H. Kim, and J.C.Alwine, J.Virol .65:2436 -2444, 1991 -RRB-.
In order to confirm the significance of this region in the context of viral replication, we constructed several of these LS mutations -LRB- -201 to - 184, -183 to -166, -165 to -148, and -148 to -130 -RRB- in proviruses and prepared viral stocks by cocultivation of transfected RD cells with CEMx174 cells.
Three mutants -LRB- -201 / -184 NXS, -165 / -148 NXS, and -147 / -130 NXS -RRB- had effects on viral replication that were much more severe than the effects predicted from their performance in transfection analyses, and the effects of two LS mutations -LRB- -201 / -184 NXS and -183 / -166 NXS -RRB- were not predicted by their effects in transfection.
In addition, we observed cell type-specific permissiveness to replication of some mutant viruses.
I kappa B/MAD -3 masks the nuclear localization signal of NF-kappa B p65 and requires the transactivation domain to inhibit NF-kappa B p65 DNA binding.
The active nuclear form of the NF-kappa B transcription factor complex is composed of two DNA binding subunits, NF-kappa B p65 and NF-kappa B p50, both of which share extensive N-terminal sequence homology with the v-rel oncogene product.
The NF-kappa B p65 subunit provides the transactivation activity in this complex and serves as an intracellular receptor for a cytoplasmic inhibitor of NF-kappa B, termed I kappa B..
In contrast, NF-kappa B p50 alone fails to stimulate kappa B-directed transcription, and based on prior in vitro studies, is not directly regulated by I kappa B..
To investigate the molecular basis for the critical regulatory interaction between NF-kappa B and I kappa B/MAD -3, a series of human NF-kappa B p65 mutants was identified that functionally segregated DNA binding, I kappa B-mediated inhibition, and I kappa B-induced nuclear exclusion of this transcription factor.
Results from in vivo expression studies performed with these NF-kappa B p65 mutants revealed the following :.
1 -RRB- I kappa B/MAD -3 completely inhibits NF-kappa B p65-dependent transcriptional activation mediated through the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 kappa B enhancer in human T lymphocytes, 2 -RRB- the binding of I kappa B/MAD -3 to NF-kappa B p65 is sufficient to retarget NF-kappa B p65 from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, 3 -RRB- selective deletion of the functional nuclear localization signal present in the Rel homology domain of NF-kappa B p65 disrupts its ability to engage I kappa B/MAD -3, and 4 -RRB- the unique C-terminus of NF-kappa B p65 attenuates its own nuclear localization and contains sequences that are required for I kappa B-mediated inhibition of NF-kappa B p65 DNA binding activity.
Unexpectedly, our in vivo studies also demonstrate that I kappa B/MAD -3 binds directly to NF-kappa B p50.
This interaction is functional as it leads to retargeting of NF-kappa B p50 from the nucleus to the cytoplasm.
Surrogate thyroglobulin receptors and T cell proliferation in Hashimoto 's thyroiditis.
Immunoglobulin molecules on the surface of a B lymphocyte are the endogenous `` receptors '' to which specific antigens bind.
Studies in mice have shown that a monoclonal antibody, conjugated with palmitate to provide a lipid tail, can be inserted into the cell membrane to provide a `` surrogate '' antigen receptor.
Using flow cytometry, we detected surrogate TG receptors on non-T -LRB- but not on T -RRB- cells from 11 of 11 individuals studied -LRB- 5 Hashimoto patients and 6 control donors -RRB-.
In contrast, endogenous TG receptors could only be detected on non-T cells from 1 of 3 Hashimoto patients and from 0 of 4 control donors.
Because of the efficient binding of TG by surrogate receptors on non-T cells, we assessed the ability of such cells to present TG to T cells.
Proliferation in response to TG was observed in T cells from only 1 of 5 Hashimoto patients.
This low frequency of response was no different from that previously detected using cultures of T cells and autologous dendritic cells.
Therefore, the successful generation of surrogate receptors on non-T cells is not associated with more efficient TG presentation of T cells.
The Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen 2 interacts with an EBNA2 responsive cis-element of the terminal protein 1 gene promoter.
The Epstein-Barr virus protein EBNA2 acts as a transcriptional activator of cellular and viral genes and plays a crucial role in the immortalization of human primary B-cells by EBV.
We have shown previously that EBNA2 transactivates the promoters of the latent membrane antigens LMP, TP1 and TP2.
The promoter of the TP1 gene was chosen as a model system to study the molecular mechanism of EBNA2 mediated transactivation.
To identify an EBNA2 dependent cis-acting element, various TP1 promoter-reporter gene constructs were transfected in the absence and presence of an EBNA2 expression vector into the established B-cell line BL41-P3HR1.
We were able to delineate an 81 bp EBNA2 responsive region between -258 and -177 relative to the TP1 RNA start site.
The element worked in either orientation and could mediate EBNA2 dependent transactivation on a heterologous promoter.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed three specific protein-DNA complexes formed with sequences of the EBNA2 responsive element.
Two of these were not cell type specific, but the third was detected only in EBNA2 positive cell extracts.
Gel-shift analysis in the presence of EBNA2 specific monoclonal antibodies revealed that EBNA2 is a component of the third complex.
Thus, these experiments demonstrate that EBNA2 interacts with an EBNA2 responsive cis-element of the TP1 promoter.
ras protein activity is essential for T-cell antigen receptor signal transduction.
In a Jurkat cell model of T-cell activation an interleukin-2 promoter/reporter gene construct was activated by antigen receptor agonism in combination with the lymphokine interleukin-1.
Antigen receptor signals could be mimicked by suboptimal activation of protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- with phorbol esters in combination with calcium mobilization by an ionophore.
In cotransfection experiments, oncogenic rats obviated the need for PKC stimulation but did not replace either the calcium signal or interleukin-1.
Activated ras expression also replaced the requirement for PKC stimulation in activation of the T-cell transcription factor NF-AT.
Functional antagonism between vitamin D3 and retinoic acid in the regulation of CD14 and CD23 expression during monocytic differentiation of U-937 cells.
1,25 alpha-Dihydroxicholecalciferol -LRB- VitD3 -RRB- and retinoic acid -LRB- RA -RRB- are important regulators of the proliferation and differentiation of several cell types.
This paper describes how the expression of the monocyte-macrophage Ag, CD14, and the low affinity Fc receptor for IgE, CD23, were inversely regulated during VitD3 - and RA-induced monocytic differentiation of human U-937 monoblasts.
PMA induced the expression of both CD14 and CD23 mRNA and protein.
Exposure to VitD3 rapidly induced the de novo expression of CD14 mRNA and protein.
While inducing CD14 expression, VitD3 concomitantly suppressed the basal, PMA -, and RA-inducible CD23 expression in a dose-dependent manner.
In contrast, U-937 cells induced by RA strongly increased their expression of CD23 mRNA and protein, whereas they completely lacked detectable CD14 cell surface or mRNA expression.
Furthermore, the VitD3 - and the PMA-induced CD14 expression was inhibited as a temporal consequence of the RA-induced differentiation.
A protein of the AP-1 family is a component of nuclear factor of activated T cells.
Nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NF-AT -RRB- is a transcriptional activator involved in the induction of IL-2 gene expression.
The response element for NF-AT is a sequence localized between -285 / -254 in the IL-2 regulatory region.
The composition of NF-AT protein is still not fully elucidated.
We demonstrate that, in normal human T cells, an AP-1 protein is a component of the NF-AT protein complex.
This was evidenced by the ability of the AP-1 site to compete with the NF-AT site for binding to NF-AT and by the capacity of immobilized anti-Jun and anti-Fos antibodies to deplete NF-AT-binding activity from nuclear extracts of activated T cells.
There was no detectable binding of in vitro translated Jun/Fos heterodimer -LRB- AP-1 -RRB- to the NF-AT sequence, and the NF-AT sequence was unable to inhibit the binding of Jun/Fos to the AP-1 sequence.
Costimulation of peripheral blood T cell activation by human endothelial cells.
Enhanced IL-2 transcription correlates with increased c-fos synthesis and increased Fos content of AP-1.
We previously reported that human umbilical vein EC provide costimulatory signals to PHA-stimulated PBL via CD2 : lymphocyte function-associated Ag-3 and an unidentified ligand pair, resulting in a three - to eight-fold enhancement of IL-2 production.
The physiologic relevance of this increase was demonstrated by the proliferative advantage provided by EC to PBL suboptimally stimulated with mAb OKT3.
We now report that EC costimulation causes increased levels of IL-2 mRNA as a result of increased IL-2 transcription in PBL.
We therefore examined the effects of EC on T cell nuclear factors known to regulate IL-2 transcription, including c-jun and c-fos-two components of the transcription factor AP-1, NFAT, and others.
PBL constitutively express c-jun transcripts, and the level of c-jun mRNA is not altered by PHA activation in the absence or presence of EC.
In contrast, c-fos mRNA is absent from resting T cells and is induced on PHA activation.
EC alone do not induce c-fos mRNA but augment the level of c-fos mRNA in PHA-activated T cells by 3 - to 10-fold.
This effect is largely independent of the CD2 : lymphocyte function-associated Ag-3 pathway.
Gel-shift analysis reveals the constitutive presence of nuclear factors in resting PBL that bind to the proximal AP-1 site of the IL-2 promoter and that contain immunoreactive c-Jun but not c-Fos protein.
In contrast, AP-1 from PHA-activated cells contains c-Jun and low levels of c-Fos.
Strikingly, costimulation with EC results in a dramatic increase -LRB- up to 15-fold -RRB- in the c-Fos content of AP-1.
Levels of other nuclear factors involved in IL-2 regulation were not altered by EC, although NFAT-DNA complexes migrated at a slightly different mobility.
The Sp1 transcription factor binds the CD11b promoter specifically in myeloid cells in vivo and is essential for myeloid-specific promoter activity.
The myeloid integrin CD11b is expressed selectively on the surface of mature macrophages, monocytes, neutrophils, and natural killer cells.
Lineage-specific expression is controlled at the level of mRNA transcription.
Recent isolation of the CD11b promoter shows that 92 base pairs -LRB- bp -RRB- of 5' - flanking DNA are sufficient to direct myeloid-specific expression of a reporter gene.
To characterize regulatory sequences important for promoter activity, we performed linker scanning analysis of the 92-bp CD11b promoter and demonstrate that a sequence at bp -60 is essential for CD11b promoter activity.
We show that this sequence binds the transcription factor Sp1 in vitro and in vivo.
In vivo the Sp1 site is bound only in myeloid -LRB- U937 -RRB- cells, not in cervical carcinoma -LRB- HeLa -RRB- cells.
In addition, the macrophage transcription factor PU .1 binds the CD11b promoter in vitro and in vivo close to the Sp1 site.
Induced myeloid differentiation of K562 cells with downregulation of erythroid and megakaryocytic transcription factors : a novel experimental model for hemopoietic lineage restriction.
The human erythroleukemia cell line K562 can be induced to differentiate along the erythroid and megakaryocytic lineages.
Here we demonstrate that hexamethylene bisacetamide -LRB- HMBA -RRB- induced K562 cells to differentiate along a third pathway.
This was accompanied by downregulation of two transcription factors normally expressed in erythroid, mast and megakaryocyte lineages.
Northern analysis demonstrated coordinate downregulation of alpha globin and gamma globin in addition to the two lineage-restricted transcription factors, SCL and GATA-1.
Proliferation of the K562 cells was also suppressed.
In contrast to MEL cells, however, K562 cells acquired a macrophage-like morphology and exhibited a complete failure to generate benzidine-positive cells.
Electron microscopy revealed a marked increase in granules resembling those specific for eosinophils.
Surface marker analysis showed that HMBA-induced cells expressed reduced levels of glycophorin A, CD5, CD7 and CD11b.
No upregulation of megakaryocyte or lymphoid markers occurred.
Mutual regulation of the transcriptional activator NF-kappa B and its inhibitor, I kappa B-alpha.
The NK-kappa B transcription factor complex is sequestered in the cytoplasm by the inhibitory protein I kappa B-alpha -LRB- MAD-3 -RRB-.
Various cellular stimuli relieve this inhibition by mechanisms largely unknown, leading to NF-kappa B nuclear localization and transactivation of its target genes.
It is demonstrated here with human T lymphocytes and monocytes that different stimuli, including tumor necrosis factor alpha and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, cause rapid degradation of I kappa B-alpha, with concomitant activation of NF-kappa B, followed by a dramatic increase in I kappa B-alpha mRNA and protein synthesis.
Transfection studies reveal that the I kappa B-alpha mRNA and the encoded protein are potently induced by NF-kappa B and by homodimers of p65 and of c-Rel.
saturating amounts of the inhibitory I kappa B-alpha protein are destroyed upon stimulation, allowing rapid activation of NF-kappa B..
Subsequently, I kappa B-alpha mRNA and protein levels are quickly induced by the activated NF-kappa B..
This resurgence of I kappa B-alpha protein acts to restore an equilibrium in which NF-kappa B is again inhibited.
p105 and p98 precursor proteins play an active role in NF-kappa B-mediated signal transduction.
The Rel/NF-kappa B family of transcription factors is composed of two distinct subgroups, proteins that undergo proteolytic processing and contain SWI6/ankyrin repeats in their carboxyl termini -LRB- p105, p98 -RRB-, and those without such repeats that do not require processing -LRB- p65, c-Rel, RelB, and Dorsal -RRB-.
We demonstrate that the p105 and p98 precursors share functional properties with the I kappa B proteins, which also contain SWI6/ankyrin repeats.
Both p105 and p98 were found to form stable complexes with other Rel/NF-kappa B family members, including p65 and c-Rel.
Association with the precursors is sufficient for cytoplasmic retention of either p65 or c-Rel, both of which are otherwise nuclear.
These complexes undergo stimulus-responsive processing to produce active p50/c-Rel and p55/c-Rel complexes.
NF-kappa B controls expression of inhibitor I kappa B alpha : evidence for an inducible autoregulatory pathway.
The eukaryotic transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- participates in many parts of the genetic program mediating T lymphocyte activation and growth.
Nuclear expression of NF-kappa B occurs after its induced dissociation from its cytoplasmic inhibitor I kappa B alpha.
Phorbol ester and tumor necrosis factor-alpha induction of nuclear NF-kappa B is associated with both the degradation of performed I kappa B alpha and the activation of I kappa B alpha gene expression.
Association of the newly synthesized I kappa B alpha with p65 restores intracellular inhibition of NF-kappa B DNA binding activity and prolongs the survival of this labile inhibitor.
Together, these results show that NF-kappa B controls the expression of I kappa B alpha by means of an inducible autoregulatory pathway.
The transcriptionally active factors mediating the effect of the HTLV-I Tax transactivator on the IL-2R alpha kappa B enhancer include the product of the c-rel proto-oncogene.
The transactivator HTLV-I Tax activates the promoter of the gene coding for the interleukin 2 alpha-chain receptor -LRB- IL-2R alpha -RRB- via a kappa B site that can bind several protein species of the rel family.
Tax1 strongly activates the enhancer activity of this motif, in both epithelial HeLa and lymphoid Jurkat cells.
This activation was not observed in undifferentiated embryocarcinoma F9 cells.
Overexpression of the p50, p65 and Rel proteins in these cells showed that significant activation of the IL-2R alpha kappa B site was observed only with Rel and Rel plus p65.
Moreover, whereas both Tax and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- are able to efficiently induce the binding of NF-kappa B to the IL-2R alpha kappa B site, PMA is functionally inactive.
Using the DNA affinity precipitation assay, we observed that Tax1 is able to efficiently induce the binding of Rel, whereas PMA is not.
Interaction between NF-kappa B - and serum response factor-binding elements activates an interleukin-2 receptor alpha-chain enhancer specifically in T lymphocytes.
We find that a short enhancer element containing the NF-kappa B binding site from the interleukin-2 receptor alpha-chain gene -LRB- IL-2R alpha -RRB- is preferentially activated in T cells.
The IL-2R alpha enhancer binds NF-kappa B poorly and is only weakly activated by the NF-kappa B site alone.
Serum response factor -LRB- SRF -RRB- binds to a site adjacent to the NF-kappa B site in the IL-2R enhancer, and both sites together have strong transcriptional activity specifically in T cells.
Surprisingly, the levels of SRF constitutively expressed in T cells are consistently higher than in other cell types.
Transcriptional activation of human zeta 2 globin promoter by the alpha globin regulatory element -LRB- HS-40 -RRB- : functional role of specific nuclear factor-DNA complexes.
We studied the functional interaction between human embryonic zeta 2 globin promoter and the alpha globin regulatory element -LRB- HS-40 -RRB- located 40 kb upstream of the zeta 2 globin gene.
It was shown by transient expression assay that HS-40 behaved as an authentic enhancer for high-level zeta 2 globin promoter activity in K562 cells, an erythroid cell line of embryonic and/or fetal origin.
Although sequences located between -559 and -88 of the zeta 2 globin gene were dispensable for its expression on enhancerless plasmids, they were required for the HS-40 enhancer-mediated activity of the zeta 2 globin promoter.
Site-directed mutagenesis demonstrated that this HS-40 enhancer-zeta 2 globin promoter interaction is mediated by the two GATA-1 factor binding motifs located at -230 and -104, respectively.
The functional domains of HS-40 were also mapped.
Site-directed mutagenesis further demonstrated that the enhancer function of one of the two NF-E2 / AP1 motifs of HS-40 is mediated through its binding to NF-E2 but not AP1 transcription factor.
Finally, we did genomic footprinting of the HS-40 enhancer region in K562 cells, adult nucleated erythroblasts, and different nonerythroid cells.
On the other hand, only one of the apparently nonfunctional sequence motifs was bound with factors in vivo.
In comparison to K562, nucleated erythroblasts from adult human bone marrow exhibited a similar but nonidentical pattern of nuclear factor binding in vivo at the HS-40 region.
Transcriptional regulation of interleukin 3 -LRB- IL3 -RRB- in primary human T lymphocytes.
Role of AP-1 - and octamer-binding proteins in control of IL3 gene expression.
We have investigated the molecular and biochemical basis for activation of interleukin 3 -LRB- IL3 -RRB- gene expression in primary human T lymphocytes following CD3 and CD2 receptor stimulation or activation by phytohemagglutinin plus phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate.
Using transfection and reporter gene assays specifically designed for primary T lymphocytes in conjunction with gel retardation assays, Western blot analyses and UV cross-linking studies, we found that c-Jun, c-Fos, and octamer-binding proteins play a major role in transcriptional activation of the IL3 gene via their interaction with two specific regions contained within the IL3 5' - flanking sequence.
Transcription factor jun-B is target of autoreactive T-cells in IDDM.
In addition, some IDDM sera that contain antibodies to glutamic acid decarboxylase also coprecipitate a 38,000-M -LRB- r -RRB- protein from islets.
This study used a high titer anti-38 ,000 - M -LRB- r -RRB- serum to screen bacteriophage lambda cDNA expression libraries and identified human islet and placental clones encoding jun-B, the nuclear transcription protein, of predicted 38,000 M -LRB- r -RRB-.
Peripheral blood T-cells exhibited significant proliferation in response to a recombinant fragment of jun-B -LRB- amino acids 1-180 -RRB- in 12 of 17 -LRB- 71 % -RRB- recent-onset IDDM subjects, 8 of 16 -LRB- 50 % -RRB- ICA-positive first-degree relatives of IDDM subjects who were at risk, 3 of 12 -LRB- 25 % -RRB- other autoimmune disease subjects, and 0 of 10 healthy control subjects.
Proliferation to tetanus toxoid did not differ significantly between the groups.
Responses to jun-B were not related to age, sex, or human leukocyte antigen status.
Cell type - and stage-specific expression of the CD20/B1 antigen correlates with the activity of a diverged octamer DNA motif present in its promoter.
The CD20 -LRB- B1 -RRB- gene encodes a B cell-specific protein involved in the regulation of human B cell proliferation and differentiation.
Studies with 5' deletion CD20 promoter-CAT constructs have previously revealed two regions of the promoter between bases -186 and -280 and between bases -280 and -454 which contained positive regulatory elements.
In this study we identified a sequence element present in the most proximal region located between bases -214 and -201, TTCTTCTAATTAA, which is important in the high constitutive expression of CD20 in mature B cells and the induction of CD20 in pre-B cells.
This sequence element was referred to as the BAT box and its deletion significantly reduced the activity of a CD20 promoter-CAT construct in B cells.
Mobility shift assays with various mutant probes and B cell nuclear extracts demonstrated that the core sequence TAAT was essential for binding to this site.
Southwestern blotting and UV cross-linking studies confirmed that the BAT box binding proteins were Oct-1 and Oct-2.
The affinity of the BAT box binding proteins for the BAT box was approximately 25-fold less than for the octamer sequence and the BAT box binding proteins dissociated from the BAT box 10-fold more rapidly than from the octamer sequence.
Despite this lower affinity, a trimer of the BAT box sequence was as efficiently transactivated by an Oct-2 expression vector as was a trimer of the octamer sequence in HeLa cells.
The BAT box and Oct-2 were also implicated in the induction of CD20 in the pre-B cell line, PB-697, via phorbol esters.
The induction of CD20 mRNA was temporally associated with induction of Oct-2 mRNA and a BAT box-deleted CD20-CAT construct, in contrast to the wild type, was poorly induced by phorbol esters.
Stimulation of interleukin-1 alpha and interleukin-1 beta production in human monocytes by protein phosphatase 1 and 2A inhibitors.
Protein phosphatases 1 and 2A are important in regulating cellular functions by controlling the phosphorylation state of their substrates.
In human monocytes, the inhibitors of these phosphatases, okadaic acid and calyculin A, were found to increase the mRNA accumulation and cytokine production of interleukin-1 beta and interleukin-1 alpha.
The increased mRNA accumulation was found to be primarily because of the increase in the transcription rate of the interleukin-1 genes.
Okadaic acid increased the synthesis of the interleukin-1 beta precursor and mature forms and their secretion.
This increased processing and secretion correlated with the stimulation of IL-1 beta convertase mRNA accumulation.
The stimulation of interleukin-1 alpha production by okadaic acid was more modest than that of interleukin-1 beta.
However, the phosphorylation of the precursor interleukin-1 alpha cytokine was increased.
Transcriptional regulation of the pyruvate kinase erythroid-specific promoter.
Mammal pyruvate kinases are encoded by two genes.
The L gene produces the erythroid -LRB- R-PK -RRB- or the hepatic -LRB- L-PK -RRB- isozymes by the alternative use of two promoters.
We report the characterization of the cis - and trans-acting elements involved in the tissue-specific activity of the L gene erythroid promoter.
A R-PK DNA fragment extending from -870 to +54 relative to the cap site confers erythroid specificity to a reporter gene.
Within this region, we define a minimal promoter -LRB- -62 to +54 -RRB- that displays erythroid-specific activity and contains two DNA binding sites.
One, located at -50, binds members of the CCACC/Sp1 family and the other, located at -20, binds the erythroid factor GATA-1.
Although the -20 GATA binding site -LRB- AGATAA -RRB- is also a potential TFIID binding site, it does not bind TFIID.
Furthermore, the substitution of this GATA binding site by a canonical TFIID binding site suppresses the promoter activity.
Finally, by co-transfection experiments, we study the elements involved in the hGATA-1 transactivation of the R-PK promoter in HeLa cells.
-LSB- The trend of molecular biology study on eosinophils -RSB-.
Recently, many investigators have been interested in the study on eosinophil biology since genes association with eosinophils such as interleukin-5 or eosinophil granule proteins -LRB- EPO, ECP, EDN, MBP, and CLC -RRB-, were isolated.
However, the molecular basis for the commitment of progenitors to the eosinophil lineage has not been determined.
The mechanism by which eosinophil-specific genes encoding primary and secondary granule proteins -LRB- e.g. ECP, EDN, EPO, MBP, and CLC -RRB- are expressed and regulated during eosinophilopoiesis is also unknown.
In this paper, I described the characterization of genes encoding eosinophil granule proteins and the mRNA expression of GATA-1 binding transcription factor during eosinophil differentiation.
Regulation of the Ets-related transcription factor Elf-1 by binding to the retinoblastoma protein.
The retinoblastoma gene product -LRB- Rb -RRB- is a nuclear phosphoprotein that regulates cell cycle progression.
Elf-1 is a lymphoid-specific Ets transcription factor that regulates inducible gene expression during T cell activation.
In this report, it is demonstrated that Elf-1 contains a sequence motif that is highly related to the Rb binding sites of several viral oncoproteins and binds to the pocket region of Rb both in vitro and in vivo.
Elf-1 binds exclusively to the underphosphorylated form of Rb and fails to bind to Rb mutants derived from patients with retinoblastoma.
Co-immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated an association between Elf-1 and Rb in resting normal human T cells.
After T cell activation, the phosphorylation of Rb results in the release of Elf-1, which is correlated temporally with the activation of Elf-1-mediated transcription.
Overexpression of a phosphorylation-defective form of Rb inhibited Elf-1-dependent transcription during T cell activation.
These results demonstrate that Rb interacts specifically with a lineage-restricted Ets transcription factor.
Mice deficient for the 55 kd tumor necrosis factor receptor are resistant to endotoxic shock, yet succumb to L. monocytogenes infection.
The multiple biological activities of tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- are mediated by two distinct cell surface receptors of 55 kd -LRB- TNFRp55 -RRB- and 75 kd -LRB- TNFRp75 -RRB-.
Using gene targeting, we generated a TNFRp55-deficient mouse strain.
Cells from TNFRp55 - / - mutant mice lack expression of TNFRp55 but display normal numbers of high affinity TNFRp75 molecules.
However, TNF signaling is largely abolished, as judged by the failure of TNF to induce NF-kappa B in T lymphocytes from TNFRp55-deficient mice.
The loss of TNFRp55 function renders mice resistant to lethal dosages of either lipopolysaccharides or S. aureus enterotoxin B..
In contrast, TNFRp55-deficient mice are severely impaired to clear L. monocytogenes and readily succumb to infection.
Thus, the 55 kd TNFR plays a decisive role in the host 's defense against microorganisms and their pathogenic factors.
Cloning and functional characterization of early B-cell factor, a regulator of lymphocyte-specific gene expression.
Early B-cell factor -LRB- EBF -RRB- was identified previously as a tissue-specific and differentiation stage-specific DNA-binding protein that participates in the regulation of the pre-B and B lymphocyte-specific mb-1 gene.
Partial amino acid sequences obtained from purified EBF were used to isolate cDNA clones, which by multiple criteria encode EBF.
The recombinant polypeptide formed sequence-specific complexes with the EBF-binding site in the mb-1 promoter.
The cDNA hybridized to multiple transcripts in pre-B and B-cell lines, but transcripts were not detected at significant levels in plasmacytoma, T-cell, and nonlymphoid cell lines.
Expression of recombinant EBF in transfected nonlymphoid cells strongly activated transcription from reporter plasmids containing functional EBF-binding sites.
Analysis of DNA binding by deletion mutants of EBF identified an amino-terminal cysteine-rich DNA-binding domain lacking obvious sequence similarity to known transcription factors.
Deletions delineated a carboxy-terminal dimerization region containing two repeats of 15 amino acids that show similarity with the dimerization domains of basic-helix-loop-helix proteins.
A chimeric type II/type I interleukin-1 receptor can mediate interleukin-1 induction of gene expression in T cells.
The type I interleukin-1 receptor -LRB- IL-1R -RRB- is capable of transducing a signal resulting in promoter activation in T cells.
This signal transduction is dependent on the cytoplasmic domain, which consists of 213 amino acids.
Here we report that the type II IL-1R does not mediate gene activation in Jurkat cells.
However, a hybrid receptor composed of the extracellular and transmembrane regions of the human type II interleukin-1 fused to the cytoplasmic domain of the human type I IL-1R was capable of transducing a signal across the membrane resulting in a pattern of gene activation identical to that mediated by the type I IL-1R.
A mutation of the glucocorticoid receptor in primary cortisol resistance.
The precise molecular abnormalities that cause primary cortisol resistance have not been completely described.
In a subject with primary cortisol resistance we have observed glucocorticoid receptors -LRB- hGR -RRB- with a decreased affinity for dexamethasone.
We hypothesize that a mutation of the hGR glucocorticoid-binding domain is the cause of cortisol resistance.
Total RNA isolated from the index subject 's mononuclear leukocytes was used to produce first strand hGR cDNAs, and the entire hGR cDNA was amplified in segments and sequenced.
When the wild-type hGR and hGR-Ile 729 were expressed in COS-1 cells and assayed for -LSB- 3H -RSB- - Dexamethasone binding, the dissociation constants were 0.799 + / - 0.068 and 1.54 + / - 0.06 nM -LRB- mean + / - SEM -RRB- -LRB- P < 0.01 -RRB-, respectively.
When the wild-type hGR and hGR-Ile 729 were expressed in CV-1 cells that were cotransfected with the mouse mammary tumor virus long terminal repeat fused to the chloramphenicol acetyl transferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- gene, the hGR-Ile 729 conferred a fourfold decrease in apparent potency on dexamethasone stimulation of CAT activity.
Aldosterone-specific membrane receptors and rapid non-genomic actions of mineralocorticoids.
Functional studies in extrarenal, non-epithelial cells such as smooth muscle cells and more recently circulating human lymphocytes have provided increasing evidence that aldosterone produces not only classical genomic effects, but also rapid, non-genomic effects on transmembrane electrolyte movements.
These involve activation of the sodium/proton exchanger of the cell membrane at very low, physiological concentrations of aldosterone with an acute onset within 1-2 min.
A second messenger cascade involved is the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate / calcium pathway which responds over the same rapid time course.
Such changes clearly can not be explained by genomic mechanisms, which are responsible for later effects than the membrane related rapid responses.
The unique characteristics of this new pathway for steroid action include its rapid time course, 10,000-fold selectivity for aldosterone over cortisol and the ineffectiveness of spironolactones, classical mineralocorticoid antagonists, as antagonists of the response.
Adenovirus E1A inhibits IFN-induced resistance to cytolysis by natural killer cells.
Infection of target cells with cytopathic viruses inhibits IFN induction of cytolytic resistance to NK cell-mediated cytolysis -LSB- IFN-mediated cytoprotection -LRB- IFN-MCP -RRB- -RSB-.
Group C, adenovirus serotype 5 -LRB- Ad5 -RRB- infection inhibits both IFN-MCP and cellular protein synthesis.
To test this hypothesis, 4-h NK cytolysis assays were performed on IFN-gamma-treated human cells infected with an Ad5 E1A deletion mutant, dl343, or transfected with the Ad5 E1A gene.
IFN-MCP was not inhibited by infection with dl343, despite the production of large amounts of both early -LRB- E1B, p55 -RRB- and late -LRB- hexon -RRB- Ad proteins.
In contrast to E1A-negative, parental cell lines, IFN-MCP was blocked in Ad5 E1A-transfected epithelial and fibroblastic cell lines.
Genetic mapping studies within the E1A gene demonstrated that expression of only the first exon of E1A was sufficient to inhibit IFN-MCP.
DNA sequence homology of E1A genes between different Ad groups -LRB- group A, Ad12 ; group C, Ad5 -RRB- is limited almost entirely to three conserved regions located within the first exon of E1A.
In summary, the expression of E1A gene products inhibited IFN-MCP independently of virus infection.
E1A 's inhibition of IFN-MCP has the net effect of promoting the selective NK cell-mediated clearance of Ad-infected or Ad-transformed human cells.
HIV-1 Nef protein inhibits the recruitment of AP-1 DNA-binding activity in human T-cells.
The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 long terminal repeat, HIV-1-LTR, contains binding sites for several cellular transcription factors which contribute to HIV-1 gene expression.
We found that Nef inhibited the recruitment of AP-1 DNA-binding activity in mitogen-stimulated human T-cells.
Additionally, Nef expressing cells were transiently transfected with a plasmid in which HIV-1 AP-1 DNA recognition sequences were cloned downstream of the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- gene.
Mitogen-mediated transcriptional activation of the CAT gene in this construct was inhibited in Nef-expressing cells but not in control cells.
Hypertension in pregnancy.
Pregnancy-induced hypertension -LRB- PIH -RRB- is a frequent cause of maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality.
In the present study we focused on the pathophysiology of PIH, mainly on the role of mineralocorticoids, reversed blood pressure patterns, and the resulting necessity of continuous monitoring of the preeclamptic mother.
Problems of antihypertensive therapy are discussed and the first results of a pilot study with Urapidil are presented.
To examine the role of mineralocorticoids in the pathophysiology of PIH, we studied plasma aldosterone and 18-hydroxy-corticosterone -LRB- 18-OH-B -RRB- levels in 25 women with PIH and in 25 healthy pregnant women.
Furthermore, we evaluated the mineralocorticoid receptor -LRB- MR -RRB- count in mononuclear leukocytes in the 2 groups.
The MR-count was significantly decreased in the PIH-group.
The values of plasma aldosterone and 18-OH-B were also low.
These results can not be explained by receptor down-regulation due to higher level of mineralocorticoids of the zona glomerulosa.
The first results of continuous blood pressure measurements with a noninvasive, real-time blood pressure monitor -LRB- Finapres -RRB- are presented.
The comparison of the obtained values with intraarterial measurements demonstrates a good correlation between the two methods.
We also report on the first experiences with Urapidil in the treatment of hypertension in severe preeclampsia.
Human CD3-CD16 + natural killer cells express the hGATA-3 T cell transcription factor and an unrearranged 2.3-kb TcR delta transcript.
Multiple TcR delta transcripts deriving from an unrearranged TcR delta gene were detected in both polyclonal and clonal CD3-CD16 + natural killer -LRB- NK -RRB- cell lines.
Two unrearranged TcR delta transcripts had a size similar to that of the functional TcR delta mRNA -LRB- 2.3 and 1.3 kb -RRB- found in TcR gamma/delta + T lymphocytes.
Sequence analysis of nine different 2.3-kb cDNA clones obtained from NK-derived polyA + RNA confirmed that they corresponded to an unrearranged TcR delta gene.
These cDNA were 2343 bp long and their transcription initiation site was located 814 bp upstream from the J delta 1 segment.
The sequence located upstream of the J delta 1 segment corresponded to the previously reported germ-line sequence.
The J delta 1 segment was correctly spliced to C delta ; in addition the four C delta exons were found to be already assembled.
Two polyadenylation sites were present in the fourth C delta exon.
The expression of hGATA-3, a T cell-specific factor known to be involved in the regulation of the transcription of TcR delta locus, was analyzed by Northern blot, in cultured NK cell population and clones -LRB- but not in freshly derived cell populations -RRB-.
Finally, no transcription of the RAG-1 gene could be detected in all NK cell lines or clones analyzed.
Cell-specific expression of helix-loop-helix transcription factors encoded by the E2A gene.
The E2A gene encodes transcription factors of the helix-loop-helix family that are implicated in cell-specific gene expression as part of dimeric complexes that interact with E box enhancer elements.
It has previously been shown that transcripts of the E2A gene can be detected in a wide range of cell types.
We have now examined expression of the mouse E2A gene at the protein level using polyclonal antisera directed against distinct portions of the E2A protein to probe blots of cellular extracts.
A 73 kDa protein was identified by this analysis :.
this protein is highly enriched in cell lines of B lymphoid origin as compared to pancreatic beta-cells and fibroblast cells.
The detection of this protein selectively in extracts of lymphoid cells correlates with the presence of the E box-binding activity LEF1/BCF1 in these cells ;.
this binding activity was previously shown to be efficiently recognized by antiserum directed against E2A gene products.
Transfection of cells with full length E2A cDNA leads to appearance of protein co-migrating with the 73 kDa protein on SDS gel electrophoresis and co-migrating with LEF1/BCF1 on mobility shift analysis.
Our results are consistent with the view that the DNA-binding activity LEF1/BCF1 is a homodimer of E2A proteins ;.
Negative transcriptional regulation of human interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- gene by glucocorticoids through interference with nuclear transcription factors AP-1 and NF-AT.
IL-2 gene transcription is affected by several nuclear proteins.
Nuclear extracts from primary human T lymphocytes were analyzed by electrophoretic DNA mobility shift assays.
Both Dex and CsA inhibited the binding of transcription factors AP-1 and NF-AT, but not of NF-kB and OCT-1 / OAF, to their corresponding sites on the IL-2 gene promoter.
To correlate changes in nuclear factor binding in vitro with transcriptional activity in vivo and define the structural requirements for IL-2 promoter repression, we used transient DNA transfections.
Jurkat cells were transfected with plasmids containing either the intact IL-2 promoter or its AP-1, NF-AT, and NF-kB motifs.
Dex inhibited the IL-2 promoter and the AP-1, but not the NF-AT and NF-kB plasmids.
In contrast, CsA inhibited the IL-2 promoter and the NF-AT, but not the AP-1 and NF-kB plasmids.
The assessment of synovial lymphocyte reactivity to adenovirus antigen stimulation was undertaken in patients with persistent or recurrent inflammatory arthritis.
The 3H-thymidine uptake procedure was employed, incorporating multiple microbiological antigens.
Five patients were found with repeated maximal responses to adenovirus antigen ; in one of these adenovirus nucleotide sequences were present in a synovial biopsy specimen.
The lytic transition of Epstein-Barr virus is imitated by recombinant B-cells.
Lytic transition of Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- is initiated by distinct immediate early regulators of the viral cycle, in synchronization to temporary, permissive conditions during host cell differentiation.
We developed eukaryotic vectors suitable to imitate the processes involved in lytic transition in cell culture systems.
Two stable B cell lines were established :.
R59Z activator cells were used to induce lytic EBV expression in a constitutive manner by the production of the BZLF 1 trans-activator -LRB- Zta -RRB-.
R7-57 reporter cells, on the other hand, signaled induced activity of the lytic origin of EBV replication -LRB- ori Lyt -RRB-.
Different modes, like chemical induction, lytic superinfection with EBV and single gene trans-activation converted the recombinant ori Lyt element in R7-57 reporter cells.
BZLF 1, transiently expressed in R7-57 reporter cells, was the only EBV trans-activator found, sufficient in inducing the viral lytic cycle.
Basing on these experiments, trans-cellular activation of EBV was tested by cocultivation of BZLF 1-expressing R59Z activator cells with the R7-57 reporter line.
No lytic effect on the reporter cells could be measured, neither by cocultivation of activator cells nor by coincubation of BZLF 1-containing cell lysates.
Latency breaking activity, however, was transferred from activator to reporter cells when active, exogenous virus was added.
The cell system described in these experiments provides a tool for the detection of EBV reactivation and demonstrates the potential of the lytic regulatory gene BZLF 1.
Immobilization and recovery of fusion proteins and B-lymphocyte cells using magnetic separation.
A new approach to facilitate immobilization and affinity purification of recombinant proteins and selected human B lymphocytes has been developed.
The results show for the first time that a DNA-binding protein can be used for affinity purification of fusion proteins as exemplified by the specific and gentle recovery of beta-galactosidase and alkaline phosphatase from bacterial lysates using immunomagnetic separation.
The approach was further extended to cell separation by the efficient recovery and elution of human CD37 B lymphocytes from peripheral blood.
Transcriptional activation of the macrophage colony-stimulating factor gene by IL-2 is associated with secretion of bioactive macrophage colony-stimulating factor protein by monocytes and involves activation of the transcription factor NF-kappa B..
Human peripheral blood monocytes -LRB- Mo -RRB- constitutively display the beta-chain of the receptor for IL-2, whereas expression of the IL-2R alpha-chain is not constitutive but inducible with IL-2.
Here we report that binding of human IL-2 to its binding site leads to transcriptional activation of the macrophage CSF -LRB- M-CSF -RRB- gene in Mo resulting in accumulation of M-CSF mRNA and subsequent release of bioactive M-CSF protein as demonstrated by ELISA and inhibition of IL-2 induced release of an activity-stimulating growth of monocyte-type colonies by a neutralizing anti-M-CSF antibody.
Transcriptional activation of the M-CSF gene by IL-2 is preceded by enhanced binding activity of the transcription factor NF-kappa B to its recognition sequence in the 5' regulatory enhancer region of the M-CSF gene.
Moreover, using a heterologous promoter -LRB- herpes thymidine kinase -RRB- construct containing the NF-kappa B consensus sequence, it is shown that NF-kappa B binding by an IL-2-induced monocyte-derived nuclear protein confers reporter gene -LRB- human growth hormone -RRB- activity.
Dependence for the proliferative response to erythropoietin on an established erythroid differentiation program in a human hematopoietic cell line, UT-7.
Erythroid differentiation involves the activation of a number of erythroid-specific genes, most of which, including the globin genes and the erythropoietin receptor -LRB- Epo-R -RRB- gene, are, at least in part, regulated by the transcription factor GATA-1.
In order to understand the relationship, if any, between expression of GATA-1, response to Epo and erythroid differentiation, we analyzed the expression of GATA-1, Epo-R and globin genes in an Epo-dependent human cell line, UT-7 Epo.
The results were compared to those obtained with the parental granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB- - dependent cell line, UT-7, which has a predominantly megakaryoblastic phenotype and is unable to proliferate continuously in the presence of Epo.
UT-7 Epo and UT-7 expressed similar levels of GATA-1 mRNA and binding activity.
The two lines also expressed comparable levels of Epo-R mRNA while the number of Epo-binding sites on UT-7 Epo cells was one-sixth the number of UT-7 cells -LRB- 2400 + / - 3 vs..
13,800 + / - 300 -RRB-.
By Northern analysis, UT-7 cells expressed detectable levels of beta - and gamma-globin but not alpha-globin.
In comparison, UT-7 Epo cells expressed alpha-globin and higher levels of gamma-globin -LRB- 5-fold -RRB- and beta-globin -LRB- from barely to clearly detectable -RRB-.
Globin chains -LRB- alpha, beta and gamma -RRB- were clearly detectable by affinity chromatography in UT-7 Epo but not in UT-7 cells.
The frequency of the cells which expressed beta - and gamma - globin genes in the two cell populations was measured by immunofluorescence with beta - and gamma-specific antibodies.
Glucocorticoid receptors in mononuclear cells of patients with sepsis.
Glucocorticoid receptor -LRB- GR -RRB- hormone-binding activity was studied by a whole-cell method in mononuclear cells -LRB- MNC -RRB- from peripheral blood of 7 patients during the hemodynamic compensatory phase of sepsis.
4 patients were receiving dopamine, which did not affect the GR count.
The patients' plasma cortisol concentrations were normal or slightly elevated.
Differential contribution of herpes simplex virus type 1 gene products and cellular factors to the activation of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 provirus.
We have previously reported that infection with herpes simplex virus type 1 -LRB- HSV-1 -RRB- activates expression of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- provirus in T cells.
Activation of the HIV-1 provirus correlated with the activation of binding of 55 - and 85-kDa proteins to the kappa B enhancer and binding of the 50-kDa HLP-1 protein to the LBP-1 sequences of the HIV-1 long terminal repeat.
Further examination of this system has shown that the inhibition of HSV-1 replication by the antiviral drug acyclovir does not inhibit HSV-1-mediated induction of HIV-1 provirus.
Surprisingly, the NF-kappa B and HLP-1 binding activities were substantially inhibited in acyclovir-treated cells.
Differential autoregulation of glucocorticoid receptor expression in human T - and B-cell lines.
Regulation of glucocorticoid receptor -LRB- GR -RRB- expression by its cognate ligand was examined in the glucocorticoid-sensitive human leukemic T-cell line 6TG1 .1 and in the human B-cell line IM-9.
In contrast to the decrease in GR mRNA seen in IM-9 cells after treatment with 1 microM dexamethasone for 16-18 h, treatment of 6TG1 .1 cells resulted in an 8-fold increase in GR mRNA, as determined by Northern blot and RNase protection analysis, with a corresponding 3 - to 4-fold increase in GR protein.
Half-maximal induction of GR mRNA and protein in 6TG1 .1 cells was observed between 10-100 nM dexamethasone, and inclusion of 1 microM RU 38486 completely blocked the effects of 100 nM dexamethasone, demonstrating that positive autoregulation of GR expression in 6TG1 .1 cells is a receptor-mediated response.
Positive autoregulation of GR expression was also observed in glucocorticoid-resistant CEM-C1 cells, which contain functional GR, but whose growth is unaffected by glucocorticoids.
Thus, positive autoregulation is neither a consequence nor the sole cause of growth arrest.
The degree of negative autoregulation in IM-9 cells and positive autoregulation in 6TG1 .1 cells was unaffected by inhibition of protein synthesis with cycloheximide.
Measurement of GR mRNA turnover in 6TG1 .1 cells treated with actinomycin-D revealed a half-life of 2.5 h, which was unaffected by dexamethasone treatment.
A similar half-life was determined in IM-9 cells and was also unaffected by steroid treatment.
These results are consistent with the interpretation that glucocorticoid-mediated autoregulation of GR expression is a tissue-specific primary transcriptional response.
Regulation of lymphoid-specific immunoglobulin mu heavy chain gene enhancer by ETS-domain proteins.
The enhancer for the immunoglobulin mu heavy chain gene -LRB- IgH -RRB- activates a heterologous gene at the pre-B cell stage of B lymphocyte differentiation.
A lymphoid-specific element, microB, is necessary for enhancer function in pre-B cells.
A microB binding protein is encoded by the PU .1 / Spi-1 proto-oncogene.
Another sequence element, microA, was identified in the mu enhancer that binds the product of the ets-1 proto-oncogene.
Co-expression of both PU .1 and Ets-1 in nonlymphoid cells trans-activated reporter plasmids that contained the minimal mu enhancer.
These results implicate two members of the Ets family in the activation of IgH gene expression.
1,25-Dihydroxy vitamin D3 and 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate synergistically induce monocytic cell differentiation : FOS and RB expression.
1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 and 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB- interact synergistically to induce monocytic differentiation of U937 histiocytic lymphoma cells.
Addition of TPA causes an otherwise ineffective dose of 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 to induce differentiation.
The induced differentiation depends on the simultaneous -LRB- vs. sequential -RRB- presence of both agents.
The kinetics of induced differentiation are consistent with a G1 specific cellular response to initiate the metabolic cascade culminating in cell differentiation.
Comparative analysis of NFAT -LRB- nuclear factor of activated T cells -RRB- complex in human T and B lymphocytes.
The B cell NFAT complex, however, was not functional, since it failed to activate transcription from an NFAT-driven chloramphenicol acetyltransferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- construct.
Purified recombinant Jun and Fos proteins failed to bind directly to the NFAT motif.
An NFAT oligonucleotide carrying mutations in the 5' purine-rich part of the NFAT sequence failed to form a complex and to compete with the wild type motif for NFAT complex formation in both T and B cells.
Single strand conformation polymorphism analysis of androgen receptor gene mutations in patients with androgen insensitivity syndromes : application for diagnosis, genetic counseling, and therapy.
In this report, we address the possibility of rapid mutational analysis of the androgen receptor gene for initial diagnosis, genetic counseling, and molecular subclassification of affected patients and their families.
DNA from peripheral blood leukocytes of six patients from five families with various degrees of androgen insensitivity was studied.
Exons 2 to 8 of the androgen receptor gene were analyzed using a combination of single strand conformation polymorphism analysis and direct DNA sequencing.
Female family members were also studied to identify heterozygote carriers.
Point mutations in the AR gene were identified in all six patients, and all mutations caused amino acid substitutions.
One patient with incomplete androgen insensitivity was a mosaic for the mutation.
Four of the five mothers, as well as a young sister of one patient, were carriers of the mutation present in the affected child.
The identification of carriers is of substantial clinical importance for genetic counseling.
Occurrence of a silencer of the interleukin-2 gene in naive but not in memory resting T helper lymphocytes.
In the immune system the first activation of a naive T cell by antigen is a key step in the shaping of the peripheral T cell specificity repertoire and maintenance of self-tolerance.
In the present study, analysis of the interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- gene activation shows that naive human helper T cells -LRB- cord blood CD4 + T cells, adult CD4 + CD45RO - T cells -RRB- regulate IL-2 transcription by a mechanism involving both a silencer and an activator acting on the purine-rich IL-2 promoter elements -LRB- NF-AT binding sites -RRB-.
By contrast, memory cells, either in vitro activated helper T cells reverting to a resting state, or CD4 + T -LRB- memory -RRB- clones, or CD4 + CD45RO + T cells isolated ex vivo, no longer have a silencer.
in resting memory T cells the activator is located in the cytoplasm and is inactive, whereas in stimulated cells it is functional in promoting transcription and now resides in the nucleus.
Thus, the regulation of the gene coding for the main T cell growth factor changes irreversibly after the first encounter of T cells with antigen.
Cell cycle analysis of E2F in primary human T cells reveals novel E2F complexes and biochemically distinct forms of free E2F.
The transcription factor E2F activates the expression of multiple genes involved in cell proliferation, such as c-myc and the dihydrofolate reductase gene.
Regulation of E2F involves its interactions with other cellular proteins, including the retinoblastoma protein -LRB- Rb -RRB-, the Rb-related protein p107, cyclin A, and cdk2.
We undertook a detailed analysis of E2F DNA-binding activities and their cell cycle behavior in primary human T cells.
Three E2F DNA-binding activities were identified in resting -LRB- G0 -RRB- T cells with mobilities in gel shift assays distinct from those of previously defined E2F complexes.
One of these activities was found to be a novel, less abundant, Rb-E2F complex.
In addition to these novel E2F complexes, three distinct forms of unbound -LRB- free -RRB- E2F were resolved in gel shift experiments.
These species showed different cell cycle kinetics.
The p65 subunit of NF-kappa B regulates I kappa B by two distinct mechanisms.
Transcription factor NF-kappa B -LRB- p50/p65 -RRB- is generally localized to the cytoplasm by its inhibitor I kappa B..
Overproduced I kappa B, free from NF-kappa B, is rapidly degraded.
Overexpression of p65 increases endogenous I kappa B protein in both carcinoma and lymphoid cells by two mechanisms : protein stabilization and increased transcription of I kappa B mRNA.
In contrast, p65 delta, a naturally occurring splice variant, fails to markedly augment I kappa B protein levels.
Thus, p65 and I kappa B are linked in an autoregulatory loop, ensuring that NF-kappa B is held in the cytoplasm until cells are specifically induced to translocate it to the nucleus.
Nuclear factor kappa B, a mediator of lipopolysaccharide effects.
Exposure of certain cell types to bacterial lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- leads to activation of nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB-, an inducible transcription factor.
One of NF-kappa B 's unique properties is its posttranslational activation via release of an inhibitory subunit, called inhibitor of NF-kappa B -LRB- I kappa B -RRB-, from a sequestered cytoplasmic form.
This event is also triggered under various other conditions of biomedical importance.
Other bacterial toxins, tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF -RRB-, interleukin-1 -LRB- IL-1 -RRB-, T cell mitogens, UV light, gamma rays and oxidative stress were reported to induce NF-kappa B..
The activated form of NF-kappa B, which is rapidly taken up into nuclei, initiates transcription from immediate early genes in a wide variety of cell types.
Most of the target genes for NF-kappa B are of relevance for the immune response and can be grouped into those encoding cytokines, cell surface receptors, acute phase proteins and viral genomes, such as that of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB-.
Costimulation of cAMP and protein kinase C pathways inhibits the CD3-dependent T cell activation and leads to a persistent expression of the AP-1 transcription factor.
In this report, we show that upon the stimulation of both pathways T lymphocytes became refractory to activation via the CD3/T cell receptor -LRB- TcR -RRB- complex.
T cells preincubated with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- and dibutyryl cAMP -LRB- Bt2cAMP -RRB- displayed a deficient proliferative ability in response to anti-CD3 mAb stimulation, whereas lymphocytes treated individually with either Bt2cAMP or PMA responded comparably to untreated samples.
We detected an association between the reduced mitogenic response and low expression of both interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- and the alpha chain -LRB- CD25 -RRB- of the IL-2 receptor -LRB- IL-2R -RRB-.
Remarkably, we observed that these samples displayed a persistent expression of the c-fos protooncogene, associated to an increased AP-1 DNA-binding activity, whereas no variations of CREB or NF-kB were detected.
Altogether, the data provide the evidence that both pathways complement each other in regulating gene expression and, conversely, downregulate the TcR transduction mechanisms.
Antisense oligonucleotides to the p65 subunit of NF-kappa B block CD11b expression and alter adhesion properties of differentiated HL-60 granulocytes.
NF-kappa B is a pleiotropic regulator of a variety of genes implicated in the cellular response to injury.
This function has been attributed to the coordinated binding of subunits of NF-kappa B to distinct regions of the promoter elements of numerous genes, including cytokines, growth factor receptors, and adhesion molecules.
Antisense phosphorothioate oligonucleotides to the p50 and p65 subunits of the NF-kappa B complex were used to define the physiologic role of this transcription factor in resting and stimulated granulocytes.
A reduction in the expression of p65 was produced by treatment with the phosphorothioate antisense oligodeoxynucleotide.
This reduction was accompanied by rapid changes in the cellular adhesion of dimethyl sulfoxide-differentiated HL-60 leukemia cells stimulated by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB-.
These effects were characterized by a marked reduction in CD11b integrin expression on the surface of treated cells.
Furthermore, the p65 antisense oligomer effectively abolished an upregulation of CD11b that was produced by formyl-met-leu-phe and TPA.
However, the p65 antisense phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotide had no significant effect on the production of reactive oxygen intermediates or on phagocytosis by these cells.
Minimally modified low density lipoprotein-induced inflammatory responses in endothelial cells are mediated by cyclic adenosine monophosphate.
We have previously shown that minimally oxidized LDL -LRB- MM-LDL -RRB- activated endothelial cells to increase their interaction with monocytes but not neutrophils, inducing monocyte but not neutrophil binding and synthesis of monocyte chemotactic protein-1 and monocyte colony-stimulating factor -LRB- M-CSF -RRB-.
In the present studies we have examined the signaling pathways by which this monocyte-specific response is induced.
Both induction of monocyte binding and mRNA levels for M-CSF by MM-LDL were not inhibited in protein kinase C-depleted endothelial cells.
Incubation of endothelial cells with MM-LDL caused a 173 % increase in intracellular cAMP levels.
Agents which increased cAMP levels, including cholera toxin, pertussis toxin, dibutyryl cAMP, and isoproterenol mimicked the actions of MM-LDL.
We present evidence that induction of neutrophil binding by LPS is actually suppressed by agents that elevated cAMP levels.
Expression levels of the thyrotropin receptor gene in autoimmune thyroid disease : coregulation with parameters of thyroid function and inverse relation to major histocompatibility complex classes I and II.
Using a human TSH receptor -LRB- TSH-R -RRB- cDNA probe, we investigated TSH-R transcript levels in 13 human thyroid fragments by Northern blot analysis ;.
7 Graves' disease, 2 Hashimoto 's disease, 3 endemic goiter, and 1 healthy thyroid gland were studied.
TSH-R expression levels were variable, but displayed a close correlation to the expression of thyroid peroxidase -LRB- r = 0.703 ; P < 0.05 -RRB-, thyroglobulin -LRB- r = 0.817 ; P < 0.01 -RRB-, and the nuclear oncogene c-fos -LRB- r = 0.935 ; P < 0.001 -RRB-, but not c-myc.
Overall, TSH-R transcript levels were low or absent in those thyroids in which expression of the major histocompatibility complex class I or II -LRB- MHC I or II -RRB- was high, thus establishing an inverse relation -LRB- MHC I, r = -0.791 ; P < 0.01 ; MHC II, r = -0.784 ; P < 0.01 -RRB-.
In situ hybridization showed that apart from lymphocytes, thyroid cells themselves were the source of MHC II transcripts.
gamma-Interferon expression was only detectable in 1 Hashimoto 's goiter.
Regulation of the interleukin-1 beta -LRB- IL-1 beta -RRB- gene by mycobacterial components and lipopolysaccharide is mediated by two nuclear factor-IL6 motifs.
We demonstrated that the Mycobacterium tuberculosis cell wall component lipoarabinomannan -LRB- LAM -RRB- is a very potent inducer of IL-1 beta gene expression in human monocytes and investigated the mechanism of this effect.
We localized the LAM -, lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- -, and TNF-alpha-inducible promoter activity to a -131 / +15 -LRB- positions -131 to +15 -RRB- DNA fragment of the IL-1 beta gene by deletion analysis and chloramphenicol acetyltransferase assay.
Within this DNA fragment, there were two novel 9-bp motifs -LRB- -90 / -82 and -40 / -32 -RRB- with high homology to the nuclear factor-IL6 -LRB- NF-IL6 -RRB- binding site.
Site-directed mutagenesis demonstrated that the two NF-IL-6 motifs could be independently activated by LAM, LPS, or TNF-alpha and that they acted in an orientation-independent manner.
DNA mobility shift assay revealed specific binding of nuclear protein -LRB- s -RRB- from LAM -, LPS -, or TNF-alpha - stimulated THP-1 cells to the NF-IL6 motifs.
We conclude that the two NF-IL6 sites mediate induction of IL-1 beta in response to the stimuli LAM, LPS, and TNF-alpha.
Activation of primary human T-lymphocytes through CD2 plus CD28 adhesion molecules induces long-term nuclear expression of NF-kappa B..
Stimulation of highly purified human T-cells via CD2 and CD28 adhesion molecules induces and maintains proliferation for more than 3 weeks.
This potent interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- - dependent activation does not require monocytes or accessory cells.
Long-lasting IL-2 receptivity is associated with high-level expression of the inducible IL-2 receptor alpha chain -LRB- IL-2R alpha -RRB- gene that is regulated at both transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels.
Increase of IL-2R alpha gene transcription involves the enhanced binding of the transcription factor NF-kappa B to its consensus sequence in the 5' - regulatory region of the IL-2R alpha gene.
To dissect the molecular basis for the unusually persistent transcription of the IL-2R alpha gene, we analyzed nuclear NF-kappa B binding to a radiolabeled IL-2R alpha kappa B-specific oligonucleotide probe during the time course of CD2 + CD28 activation.
Resting T-cell nuclear extracts contained KBF1/p50 homodimer.
Both inducible complexes persisted for at least 3 weeks.
Their relative levels were very similar for the duration of proliferation.
Finally, micromolar amounts of pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate, an oxygen radical scavenger that efficiently blocked the nuclear appearance of NF-kappa B in T-lymphocytes, also inhibited IL-2 secretion, IL-2R alpha cell surface expression, and T-cell proliferation.
Oxidoreductive regulation of nuclear factor kappa B..
Involvement of a cellular reducing catalyst thioredoxin.
We have investigated an oxidoreductive regulatory pathway for the DNA binding activity of a pleiotropic cellular transcription factor, nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF kappa B -RRB-, has been investigated by using NF kappa B prepared from the nucleus and the cytosol of the primary human T lymphocytes.
We show that a cellular reducing catalyst thioredoxin -LRB- Trx -RRB- plays a major role in activation of the DNA binding of NF kappa B in vitro and stimulation of transcription from the NF kappa B-dependent gene expression.
To examine the effect of Trx in intact cells, we performed transient assay with a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase-expressing plasmid under the control of human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- long terminal repeat and an effector plasmid expressing human Trx.
The promoter activity from HIV long terminal repeat was greatly augmented by co-transfecting the Trx-expressing plasmid, whose effect was dependent on the NF kappa B-binding sites.
Cell-specific bifunctional role of Jun oncogene family members on glucocorticoid receptor-dependent transcription.
Here we report that this interference is cell specific, as TPA augmented dexamethasone-induced transcriptional activation of the MMTV LTR in several T cell lines but was inhibitory in NIH-3T3 fibroblasts.
TPA-GR synergism was determined to have occurred at the GR-responsive element -LRB- GRE -RRB- level by functional analysis of deletion mutants or synthetic GRE oligonucleotides driving chloramphenicol acetyl-transferase expression.
Synergism required an intact GR DNA-binding domain, whereas amino - or carboxyl-terminal domains were dispensable.
Increased c-jun, jun-B, and jun-D expression above basal levels and increased transcriptional activity of AP-1 / TPA responsive elements fused to chloramphenicol acetyl-transferase vectors were observed in T cells treated with TPA alone or in combination with dexamethasone.
The ability of Jun proteins to cooperate with GR in T cells has been investigated after transfection of c-jun, jun-B, or jun-D expression vectors, which augmented GR-dependent transcription from either MMTV LTR or GRE.
Conversely, c-jun and jun-B transfection blunted GR-dependent transcription in HeLa cells.
The presence of c-fos had a negative influence on GR function and correlated with the cell-specific synergistic or antagonistic activity of Jun with respect to GR ;.
high basal expression of c-fos as well as AP-1 DNA binding and transcriptional activity were observed in HeLa cells, but not in T cells.
Furthermore overexpression of exogenous c-fos has an inhibitory effect on GR-dependent transcription from GRE in T cells.
A concatenated form of Epstein-Barr viral DNA in lymphoblastoid cell lines induced by transfection with BZLF1.
The replicative form of Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- DNA was studied using two lymphoblastoid cell lines, X50-7 and 6F11, which are latently infected by Epstein-Barr virus.
The lytic cycle of EBV infection was induced by transfection of the cells with the BRLF1/BZLF1 coding region of the P3HR-1 defective genome.
We combined two techniques to identify the productive replicative form of Epstein-Barr viral DNA in the lytic cycle-induced cells.
Restriction enzyme analysis followed by Southern blot hybridization identified a significant increase in the fused fragment encompassing both ends of EBV DNA.
Southern blot analysis of in situ lysing gels revealed that the cellular content of linear EBV DNA was also increased significantly after the initiation of the viral lytic cycle, while the amount of circular DNA remained approximately constant.
Synergism between the CD3 antigen - and CD2 antigen-derived signals.
Exploration at the level of induction of DNA-binding proteins and characterization of the inhibitory activity of cyclosporine.
We have demonstrated earlier that the crosslinkage of the CD3/TCR complex with the CD2 antigen results in the proliferation of normal human T cells.
The effect of this synergism was perceptible at the level of induction of the IL-2 gene, a process critical for T cell growth.
To further understand the molecular and nuclear basis for this synergism, we have explored the induction of DNA-binding proteins in highly purified normal human T cells signaled via the CD3 and/or CD2 proteins.
The effect of transmembrane signaling of T cells with ionomycin, and/or sn-1 ,2 dioctanoyl glycerol, was also determined.
The emergence of nuclear binding proteins was investigated using interleukin-2 sequence specific oligonucleotide probes in the electrophoretic mobility shift assay.
Our studies demonstrate for the first time that CD3 antigen-derived signals and CD2 antigen-derived signals are synergistic in inducing the emergence of transcription factors that bind to the NF-AT1, AP-1, and NF-kB sites located in the promoter/enhancer region of the IL-2 gene.
Moreover, cyclosporine, at concentrations readily accomplished in clinical practice, was found to inhibit the emergence of these DNA-binding proteins in normal human T cells signaled via cell surface proteins implicated in antigen-dependent T cell activation and in T cells stimulated by mobilization of cellular calcium and activation of protein kinase C..
Calcium dependent activation of the NF-AT transcription factor by p59fyn.
A reporter gene under the control of a T-cell antigen receptor element was activated in Jurkat cells by antigen receptor triggering or by a combination of phorbol myristate acetate, which activates protein kinase C, and a calcium ionophore.
Both these signals were necessary for expression of the reporter gene.
When co-transfected with a construct capable of overexpressing the tyrosine kinase p59fyn, the reporter gene was activated by PMA alone.
The activation by p59fyn plus PMA was blocked by EGTA and by the immunosuppressant drug cyclosporin A..
Lipopolysaccharide induces phosphorylation of MAD3 and activation of c-Rel and related NF-kappa B proteins in human monocytic THP-1 cells.
Many effects of lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- on gene expression, including that of human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB-, in monocytic cells are mediated by activation of kappa B DNA-binding proteins.
However, the specific members of the NF-kappa B/Rel transcription factor family involved in the LPS response, and the mechanisms through which LPS-generated signals are transduced remain unclear.
Here we show that LPS induces nuclear expression of c-Rel/p50 heterodimers as well as p50/p65 -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- kappa B DNA-binding complexes in human monocytic THP-1 cells.
Nuclear localization of these proteins occurred concomitantly with a rapid decrease in their cytosolic levels and was independent of phorbol ester-sensitive protein kinase C..
Within 24 h following LPS stimulation there was a striking increase in the levels of c-Rel, p105, and p50 in the cytosol.
The increased levels of these proteins correlated with increases in the amounts of their mRNAs during LPS activation of THP-1 cells.
LPS activation of THP-1 cells resulted in phosphorylation of MAD3 -LRB- an I kappa B-like protein -RRB-, a rapid increase in MAD3 mRNA, and an increase in MAD3 protein by 2 h..
Thus, LPS activation of human monocytic cells results in nuclear expression of c-Rel/p50 and p50/p65 -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- and induces phosphorylation of MAD3.
Induction of CD8 antigen and suppressor activity by glucocorticoids in a CEM human leukemic cell clone.
The relationship between glucocorticoid effect and regulation of cell surface antigens was investigated in two models of leukemic cell lines, CEM C7 denoted -LRB- r +, ly + -RRB- and CEM C1 -LRB- r +, ly - -RRB-.
The reactivity of murine monoclonal antibodies, anti-CD4-FITC, anti-CD8-FITC, anti-CD2-FITC and anti-calla-FITC, were analyzed using flow cytometry.
The suppressor function was determined using -LSB- 3H -RSB- thymidine incorporation into phytohemagglutinin-activated peripheral blood lymphocytes.
Dexamethasone treatment of a human leukemic cell clone CEM C7 caused an increase in a subset of cells expressing the surface antigen CD8, which is present on suppressor and cytotoxic T-lymphocytes.
By comparison, there was no modification of the expression of CD4 antigen, which is expressed at high levels in these cells.
After two days of treatment with 5 x 10 -LRB- -8 -RRB- M dexamethasone, CEM C7 cells showed a two-fold increase in suppressor activity compared to untreated cells.
In contrast, there was no regulation by glucocorticoids of either the CD8 or CD4 antigens in the leukemic clone CEM C1.
Furthermore, no modification of the suppressor function in CEM C1 cells by dexamethasone was observed.
In the human leukemic cells studied here, the ability to induce CD8 antigen expression in a CD4 + cells correlates with the ability to induce cell lysis in a glucocorticoid receptor positive cell population.
Regulation of the beta-globin locus.
Transcription of the human beta-globin gene cluster depends upon upstream regulatory sequences, which are collectively termed the locus control region.
Recent studies have provided new insights into how the individual genes of the cluster are regulated through development.
The crux of transcriptional activation is how the locus control region communicates with the gene-proximal regulatory elements.
Ectopic expression of a conditional GATA-2 / estrogen receptor chimera arrests erythroid differentiation in a hormone-dependent manner.
The GATA factors are a family of transcriptional regulatory proteins in eukaryotes that share extensive homology in their DNA-binding domains.
One enigmatic aspect of GATA factor expression is that several GATA proteins, which ostensibly share the same DNA-binding site specificity, are coexpressed in erythroid cells.
To elucidate the roles of individual GATA factors in erythropoiesis, conditional alleles of GATA-1, GATA-2, and GATA-3 were prepared by fusing each of the factors to the hormone-binding domain of the human estrogen receptor -LRB- ER -RRB-.
These GATA/ER chimeric factors were shown to be hormone-inducible trans-activating proteins in transient transfection assays.
When stably introduced into primary erythroblasts or conditionally transformed erythroid progenitors cells, exogenous GATA-2 / ER promoted proliferation and inhibited terminal differentiation in an estrogen-dependent manner.
These phenotypic effects are specifically attributable to the action of ectopically expressed GATA-2 / ER because erythroblasts expressing exogenous GATA-2 are constitutively arrested in differentiation and because erythroid progenitors expressing either Gal/ER or GATA-3 / ER do not display a hormone-responsive block in differentiation.
Proliferation index as a prognostic marker in breast cancer.
BACKGROUND.
The proliferative activity of tumors has been extensively investigated with different approaches, among which the use of the monoclonal antibody Ki-67 represents an easy and reliable means of assessing cell proliferation.
In this study, the proliferative activity of 129 primary breast cancers was investigated, and the results were related to prognosis.
METHODS.
Tumor samples, obtained from 129 patients who underwent surgery between January 1987 and December 1988, were processed for staining by an immunohistochemical procedure -LRB- avidin-biotin complex -RRB-.
The median time of observation was 42 months -LRB- range, 31-55 months -RRB-.
Life-table analysis -LRB- Mantel-Cox -RRB- was used to assess the probability of disease-free survival -LRB- DFS -RRB- and overall survival -LRB- OS -RRB-.
RESULTS.
Tumors with high Ki-67 proliferation indices -LRB- > 20 % -RRB- were associated with a higher 4-year probability of relapse of disease -LRB- 55.3 % versus 79.1 % ; P = 0.003 -RRB- and death -LRB- 71 % versus 95.6 % ; P = 0.00005 -RRB- when compared with tumors with low Ki-67 values.
In addition, this proliferative parameter maintained its prognostic significance when the patients were stratified according to lymph node involvement, menopausal status, and nuclear estrogen receptor content.
CONCLUSIONS.
Defective translocation of protein kinase C in multidrug-resistant HL-60 cells confers a reversible loss of phorbol ester-induced monocytic differentiation.
Previous studies have demonstrated that human HL-60 myeloid leukemia cells differentiate in response to phorbol esters.
This event is associated with induction of the c-jun early response gene and appearance of a monocytic phenotype.
The present studies have examined the effects of vincristine-selected, multidrug resistance on 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB- - induced HL-60 cell differentiation.
The results demonstrate that multidrug-resistant HL-60 cells, designated HL-60 / vinc, fail to respond to TPA with an increase in c-jun transcripts or other phenotypic characteristics of monocytic differentiation.
By contrast, treatment of HL-60 / vinc cells with okadaic acid, an inhibitor of serine/threonine protein phosphatases, induces c-jun transcription, growth arrest, and expression of the c-fms gene.
Studies were also performed with an HL-60 / vinc revertant -LRB- HL-60 / vinc/R -RRB- line that has regained partial sensitivity to vincristine.
Other studies further demonstrate that the jun-B and fra-1 genes are induced by TPA in both HL-60 / vinc and HL-60 / vinc/R cells, whereas c-fos expression is attenuated in the HL-60 / vinc line.
Since TPA activates protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB-, we examined translocation of PKC from the cytosol to the membrane fraction.
Although HL-60 and HL-60 / vinc/R cells demonstrated translocation of PKC activity, this subcellular redistribution was undetectable in HL-60 / vinc cells.
Activity of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family with associated phosphorylation of c-Jun Y-peptide was markedly diminished in TPA-treated HL-60 / vinc cells, but not in response to okadaic acid.
Molecular basis of a multiple lymphokine deficiency in a patient with severe combined immunodeficiency.
We have previously reported that the T lymphocytes of a child with severe combined immunodeficiency are defective in the transcription of several lymphokine genes that include IL2, IL3, IL4, and IL5, which encode interleukins 2, 3, 4, and 5 -LRB- IL-2, -3, -4, and -5 -RRB-.
Nuclear factor NF-kB, activation protein 1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB-, OCT-1, and NF-IL-2B binding activity were normal.
In contrast, the binding of the nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NF-AT -RRB- to its response element in the IL2 enhancer and to an NF-AT-like response element present in the IL4 enhancer was abnormal.
CAT expression directed by the IL2 regulatory region or by a multimer of the NF-AT-binding site was markedly lower in the patient relative to controls.
In contrast, CAT gene expression directed by a multimer of the OCT-1 proximal -LRB- OCT-1p -RRB- - binding site was equivalent in patient and controls.
Expression of mRNA for the GATA-binding proteins in human eosinophils and basophils : potential role in gene transcription.
The expression of the hematopoietic transcription factors GATA-1, GATA-2, and GATA-3 was studied in eosinophils and basophils.
Eosinophils express mRNA for GATA-1, GATA-2, and GATA-3.
Basophils express GATA-2 and GATA-3.
Treatment of HL-60 eosinophilic sublines with either interleukin-5 or butyric acid increased the expression of GATA-1 mRNA concomitant with the expression of eosinophil-specific genes, whereas levels of GATA-2 mRNA remained relatively constant.
Steroid-resistant asthma.
Cellular mechanisms contributing to inadequate response to glucocorticoid therapy.
29 asthma patients with forced expiratory volume in 1 s -LRB- FEV1 -RRB- < 70 % predicted were studied.
Patients were classified as steroid sensitive -LRB- SS -RRB- if their morning FEV1 increased > 30 % after a 1-wk course of oral prednisone 20 mg twice daily and steroid resistant -LRB- SR -RRB- if they failed to increase > 15 %.
PBMC obtained from these two groups, 17 SR and 12 SS, as well as 12 normal controls were analyzed.
SR patients had two distinguishable GR binding abnormalities :.
15 of the 17 SR patients demonstrated a significantly reduced GR binding affinity, as compared with SS patients -LRB- P = 0.0001 -RRB- and normal controls -LRB- P = 0.0001 -RRB-.
This defect was localized to T cells and reverted to normal after 48 h in culture media.
However, incubation with a combination of IL-2 and IL-4 sustained this abnormality.
The other two SR patients had an abnormally low GR number with normal binding affinity that was not limited to T cells.
Furthermore, GR number failed to normalize after incubation in media alone or IL-2 and IL-4.
Induction of tyrosine phosphorylation and T-cell activation by vanadate peroxide, an inhibitor of protein tyrosine phosphatases.
Rapid tyrosine phosphorylation of key cellular proteins is a crucial event in the transduction of activation signals to T-lymphocytes.
The regulatory role of protein tyrosine phosphatases -LRB- PTPases -RRB- in this process was explored by studying the effects of a powerful PTPase inhibitor, vanadate peroxide -LRB- pervanadate -RRB-, on the activation cascade of Jurkat human leukaemic T-cells.
Pervanadate induced activation of the tyrosine kinases lck and fyn -LRB- 4 - and 3-fold respectively -RRB- and a dramatic increase in tyrosine phosphorylation of cellular proteins, notably phospholipase C gamma 1.
After this event, we observed a rise in intracellular Ca2 + concentration, corresponding to an influx.
This effect required surface expression of the CD45 PTPase and was not observed in CD45-deficient variants of Jurkat cells.
In the CD45-negative variant, the effect of pervanadate on tyrosine phosphorylation was globally decreased and some phosphorylated substrates were specifically missing.
Pervanadate also stimulated transcription of the c-fos gene and accumulation of its mRNA as well as several other hallmarks of T-lymphocyte activation such as surface expression of the CD69 antigen and the interleukin 2 receptor alpha-chain -LRB- CD25 -RRB-.
Pervanadate activated NF-kappa B, as shown by an increase in DNA-binding activity of this transcription factor.
We thus conclude that PTPases play a crucial role in the negative regulation of signal transduction culminating in T-lymphocyte activation.
Increased proliferation, cytotoxicity, and gene expression after stimulation of human peripheral blood T lymphocytes through a surface ganglioside -LRB- GD3 -RRB- -LSB- published erratum appears in J Immunol 1994 Jul 15 ; 153 -LRB- 2 -RRB- :910 -RSB-.
However, their specific function in these processes has not been clearly defined.
A mAb, R24, that reacts specifically with a cell surface ganglioside -LRB- GD3 -RRB- has been demonstrated to stimulate proliferation of T cells derived from human peripheral blood.
In this study, we have investigated the mechanisms by which the R24 mAb affects T cell functions.
We have observed that the R24 mAb stimulates GD3 + T cell proliferation, cytotoxicity, and surface marker expression of IL-2R alpha-chain, IL-2R beta-chain, HLA-DR, CD11a, and CD11c.
Additionally, IFN-gamma activity but not IL-1, IL-2, or IL-4 activity was present in culture supernatants 72 h after R24 stimulation.
In some donors, increased IL-6 and TNF-alpha activity also was detected after R24 treatment.
This treatment also caused increased tyrosine phosphorylation of specific protein substrates.
Additionally, herbimycin A, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, blocked the R24-stimulated increase in proliferation but not cytotoxicity at concentrations consistent with specificity for tyrosine kinases.
Rhabdomyosarcomas do not contain mutations in the DNA binding domains of myogenic transcription factors.
Skeletal myogenesis is regulated by a group of transcription factors -LRB- MyoD, myogenin, myf5, and myf6 -RRB- that are `` basic helix-loop-helix '' proteins that bind to the promoters of muscle-specific genes and promote their expression.
We have previously shown that after a mutation of Leu122 to Arg the DNA binding basic domain of MyoD confers c-myc-like functional characteristics to the protein.
We have found that the basic domains of all the myogenic factors remain unaltered in rhabdomyosarcomas.
Activation of the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor promoter in T cells requires cooperative binding of Elf-1 and AP-1 transcription factors.
The granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB- gene has been studied extensively as a model system of transcriptional induction during T-lymphocyte activation.
The GM-CSF gene is not expressed in resting peripheral blood T cells but is rapidly induced at the transcriptional level following activation through the cell surface T-cell receptor.
A highly conserved 19-bp element located immediately 5' of the human GM-CSF TATA box -LRB- bp -34 to -52 -RRB-, herein called purine box 1 -LRB- PB1 -RRB-, has been shown to bind a T-cell nuclear protein complex and to be required for transcriptional induction of the GM-CSF gene following T-cell activation.
The PB1 sequence motif is highly conserved in both human and murine GM-CSF genes.
In this report, we demonstrate that the PB1 element alone confers inducibility on a heterologous promoter following transfection into human Jurkat T cells.
In addition, we identify a major PB1 nuclear protein-binding complex that is not present in resting peripheral blood T cells but is rapidly induced following T-cell activation.
Sequence analysis revealed that PB1 is composed of adjacent binding sites for Ets and AP-1 transcription factors.
In vitro mutagenesis experiments demonstrated that both the Ets and AP-1 sites are required for binding of the inducible PB1 nuclear protein complex and for the transcriptional activity of this element and the GM-CSF promoter in activated T cells.
-LRB- ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS -RRB-.
The SCL protein displays cell-specific heterogeneity in size.
SCL protein production was examined in a variety of hemopoietic cell lines by immunoblotting using specific polyclonal antisera.
SCL protein was detected in erythroid, megakaryocyte, mast and early myeloid cell lines, as well as in several lymphoid leukemia cell lines which are known to harbor SCL gene rearrangements.
In most cell lines, proteins of molecular weight 49 and 44 kDa were found, however two myeloid cell lines expressed only lower molecular weight species of 24 and 22 kDa.
Overexpression of full-length SCL protein in the lymphoid cell lines, SupT1 and Raji, did not alter cell phenotype and there was no evidence for autoregulation of SCL transcription.
The restricted pattern of SCL protein synthesis is consistent with the restricted expression of SCL mRNA documented previously.
Regulation of the BZLF1 promoter of Epstein-Barr virus by second messengers in anti-immunoglobulin-treated B cells.
Initiation of the Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- lytic cycle is dependent on the transcription of the BZLF1 gene.
The BZLF1 gene promoter -LRB- Zp -RRB- was activated by crosslinking of cell surface immunoglobulin -LRB- Ig -RRB- with anti-Ig antibody in B cells, even in the absence of other viral genes.
We identified several anti-Ig response elements within Zp, which were originally defined as 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB- response elements -LRB- ZI repeats and ZII, an AP-1-like domain -RRB-.
Since anti-Ig crosslinking leads to activation of protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- and an increase in intracellular calcium level, Zp was tested for the response to these cellular factors.
Treatment with calcium ionophore A23187 increased Zp activity.
When the calcium ionophore was used in conjunction with TPA, a PKC activator, the Zp induction was synergistically enhanced.
1 - -LRB- 5-Isoquinolinyl sulfonyl -RRB- -2 - methylpiperazine, an inhibitor of PKC, inhibited the anti-Ig inducibility of Zp.
Calmodulin antagonists, compound R24571 and trifluoperazine, blocked the Zp activation with anti-Ig.
Requirement of tyrosine kinase activation for the anti-Ig-mediated Zp activation was also demonstrated through the use of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor herbimycin.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type I Tax associates with and is negatively regulated by the NF-kappa B2 p100 gene product :.
implications for viral latency.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type I -LRB- HTLV-I -RRB- is the etiologic agent of the adult T-cell leukemia, an aggressive and often fatal malignancy of activated human CD4 T cells.
HTLV-I encodes an essential 40-kDa protein termed Tax that not only transactivates the long terminal repeat of this retrovirus but also induces an array of cellular genes.
In particular, Tax is capable of modulating the expression or activity of various host transcription factors, including members of the NF-kappa B/Rel and CREB/ATF families, as well as the cellular factors HEB-1 and p67SRF.
An additional distinguishing characteristic of HTLV-I infection is the profound state of viral latency that is present in circulating primary leukemic T cells.
In this study, we demonstrate that HTLV-I Tax can physically associate with p100, the product of the Rel-related NF-kappa B2 gene, both in transfected cells and in HTLV-I-infected leukemic T-cell lines.
Furthermore, the physical interaction of Tax with p100 leads to the inhibition of Tax-induced activation of the HTLV-I and human immunodeficiency virus type 1 long terminal repeats, reflecting p100-mediated cytoplasmic sequestration of the normally nuclearly expressed Tax protein.
In contrast, a mutant of Tax that selectively fails to activate nuclear NF-kappa B expression does not associate with p100.
-LRB- ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS -RRB-.
Effects of CD45 on NF-kappa B..
Implications for replication of HIV-1.
Increased levels of replication of the HIV type 1 are observed after the activation of infected T cells through the TCR.
However, anti-CD45 antibodies inhibit these effects in cells from infected individuals.
In this study, we examined interrelationships between CD45 and HIV-1 further.
We measured effects on the HIV-1 LTR in T cell lines that were stimulated with antibodies against CD45 and in those that lacked the expression of CD45 on their surfaces.
First, anti-CD45 antibodies did not affect basal but decreased activated levels of expression from the HIV-1 LTR.
Second, T cells, which lack CD45 and can not signal via the TCR, supported higher levels of viral replication and gene expression.
This was due to the presence of active NF-kappa B complexes in the nucleus of CD45 - T cells.
Additionally, infected T cells displayed lower levels of CD45 on their surfaces.
Thus, CD45 plays an active role in the physiology of T cells and in the replication of HIV-1.
Retinoic acid downmodulates erythroid differentiation and GATA1 expression in purified adult-progenitor culture.
All-trans retinoic acid -LRB- RA -RRB- is an important morphogen in vertebrate development, a normal constituent in human adult blood and is also involved in the control of cell growth and differentiation in acute promyelocytic leukemia.
We have examined the effects of RA on normal hematopoiesis by using early hematopoietic progenitor cells -LRB- HPC -RRB- stringently purified from adult peripheral blood.
In clonogenetic fetal calf serum-supplemented -LRB- FCS + -RRB- or - nonsupplemented -LRB- FCS - -RRB- culture treated with saturating levels of interleukin-3 -LRB- IL-3 -RRB- granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB- and erythropoietin -LRB- Ep -RRB- -LRB- combined with c-kit ligand in FCS -LRB- - -RRB- - culture conditions -RRB-, RA induces a dramatic dose-dependent shift from erythroid to granulomonocytic colony formation, the latter colonies being essentially represented by granulocytic clones.
In FCS - liquid-suspension culture supplemented with saturating Ep level and low-dose IL-3 / GM-CSF, adult HPC undergo unilineage erythropoietic differentiation :.
Here again, treatment with high-dose RA induces a shift from the erythroid to granulocytic differentiation pathway.
We then analyzed the expression of the master GATA1 gene, which encodes a finger transcription factor required for normal erythroid development ;.
addition of RA to HPC stimulated into unilineage erythropoietic differentiation in liquid culture caused a virtually complete inhibition of GATA1 mRNA induction.
This phenomenon is correlated with inhibition of GATA1 induction in the early stages of erythropoietic differentiation.
G -LRB- Anh -RRB- MTetra, a natural bacterial cell wall breakdown product, induces interleukin-1 beta and interleukin-6 expression in human monocytes.
A study of the molecular mechanisms involved in inflammatory cytokine expression -LSB- published erratum appears in J Biol Chem 1994 Jun 17 ; 269 -LRB- 24 -RRB- :16983 -RSB-.
It is believed that induction of cytokine expression by bacterial cell wall components plays a role in the development and course of sepsis.
However, most attention has been focused on lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-.
We studied the ability of N-acetylglucosaminyl-1 ,6 - anhydro-N-acetylmuramyl-L-alanyl-D - isoglutamyl-m-diaminopimelyl-D-alanine -LRB- G -LRB- Anh -RRB- MTetra -RRB-, a naturally occurring breakdown product of peptidoglycan that is produced by soluble lytic transglycosylase of Escherichia coli, to induce cytokine expression in human monocytes.
G -LRB- Anh -RRB- MTetra was found to strongly induce interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -1 beta and IL-6 mRNA expression after 2 h and IL-1 beta and IL-6 protein secretion after 48 h of activation.
The increase in mRNA accumulation was at least partly due to an increase in the transcription rates of the respective genes and was accompanied by a strong induction of nuclear factor-kappa B and activator protein-1 transcription factor expression.
Experiments using inhibitors of protein kinase C, protein kinase A, and tyrosine kinase-dependent pathways revealed that G -LRB- Anh -RRB- MTetra-induced IL-1 beta and IL-6 mRNA expression involves activation of an H7-inhibitable pathway.
By using the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide, it was shown that G -LRB- Anh -RRB- MTetra-induced IL-6 mRNA expression depends on the synthesis of new protein, whereas G -LRB- Anh -RRB- MTetra-induced IL-1 beta mRNA accumulation does not.
When responses to G -LRB- Anh -RRB- MTetra were compared with those to LPS and muramyldipeptide -LRB- MDP -RRB-, it was found that the optimal response to G -LRB- Anh -RRB- MTetra induction was similar to that of LPS but significantly higher than the response to MDP.
Induction of phosphatidylinositol turnover and EGR-1 mRNA expression by crosslinking of surface IgM and IgD in the human B cell line B104.
We have previously shown that a human B lymphoma cell line, B104, expressed surface IgM -LRB- sIgM -RRB- and surface IgD -LRB- sIgD -RRB-, and that crosslinking of sIgM and sIgD by anti-IgM antibody -LRB- Ab -RRB- and anti-IgD Ab, respectively, induced Ca2 + influx to almost the same degree, whereas only sIgM-crosslinking caused B104 cell death.
Here, we investigated the accumulation of cyclic AMP -LRB- cAMP -RRB-, the hydrolysis of inositol phosphates, protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- activity and the induction of Egr-1 and c-fos mRNA expression by sIgM - and sIgD-crosslinking to examine differences in the signals mediated through sIgM and sIgD in B104 cells.
Egr-1 mRNA expression induced by sIgM - and sIgD-crosslinking was inhibited by H7, erbstatin and genistein, but not by HA1004.
Erbstatin and genistein inhibited the sIg-crosslinking-induced Egr-1 mRNA expression in a dose-dependent manner parallel to that observed in the inhibition of sIg-crosslinking-induced protein tyrosine phosphorylation.
Phorbol myristate acetate induced Egr-1 mRNA expression but forskolin and dibutyryl cyclic AMP did not.
The difference in signals transduced through sIgM and sIgD in B104 cells is discussed.
rel Is rapidly tyrosine-phosphorylated following granulocyte-colony stimulating factor treatment of human neutrophils.
Stimulation of neutrophils with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor -LRB- G-CSF -RRB- results in an enhanced respiratory burst, prolonged survival, and increased tumor cell killing.
The effects of G-CSF are mediated by binding to specific, high affinity receptors.
G-CSF receptors lack intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity, but activation of the receptor results in the rapid induction of tyrosine kinase activity.
Antiphosphotyrosine immunoblots of whole cell lysates prepared from neutrophils show that the G-CSF rapidly induces prominent tyrosine phosphorylation of a protein of a relative molecular mass of 80 kDa.
Using monospecific antibodies, the 80-kDa tyrosine-phosphorylated protein has been shown to be p80c-rel, a proto-oncogene belonging to a family of transcriptional regulators which include NF-kB.
The induction of tyrosine phosphorylation of p80c-rel was unique to G-CSF in that granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor which also stimulates neutrophils and induces tyrosine phosphorylation does not result in tyrosine phosphorylation of p80c-rel.
The consequences of p80c-rel tyrosine phosphorylation are not yet known ;.
however, tyrosine-phosphorylated p80c-rel is capable of binding to DNA, and G-CSF stimulation results in an increase in the amount of p80c-rel which binds to DNA.
These results demonstrate that one of the first biochemical events which occurs in neutrophils following G-CSF stimulation, activation of a tyrosine kinase, leads directly to the tyrosine phosphorylation of p80c-rel.
Human interferon regulatory factor 2 gene.
Intron-exon organization and functional analysis of 5' - flanking region.
Interferon regulatory factor 2 -LRB- IRF-2 -RRB- is a transcriptional regulatory protein that terminates interferon beta expression initiated by interferon regulatory factor 1.
In this study, we isolated the genomic DNA for human IRF-2 gene, determined the intron-exon structure of the human IRF-2 gene, mapped the major transcription initiation site, identified a number of potential regulatory elements in the 5' - flanking region, and localized the IRF-2 gene on human chromosome 4.
When the promoter region was linked with a heterologous reporter gene, we found that the promoter region is inducible by both interferons -LRB- interferon-alpha and - gamma -RRB- and interferon regulatory factor 1.
The region which induced these inductions was identified as being confined to 40 nucleotides 5' to the major transcriptional initiation site by testing a series of clones with truncated promoter of IRF-2.
This region contains elements which are shared with the transcriptional enhancers of other genes including interferon regulatory factor 1, interferon beta, and interferon-inducible genes.
Calcineurin acts in synergy with PMA to inactivate I kappa B/MAD3, an inhibitor of NF-kappa B..
The interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- promoter consists of several independent T cell receptor -LRB- TcR -RRB- responsive elements.
The induction of promoters dependent on these elements is inhibitable by the immunosuppressants cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB- and tacrolimus -LRB- FK-506 -RRB-.
Calcineurin, a Ca2 + / calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase, is the FK-506 - and CsA-sensitive enzyme required for TcR mediated activation of the IL-2 promoter.
We report that a constitutively active form of calcineurin partially substitutes for the Ca2 + co-stimulus required to activate the IL-2 promoter elements IL-2A -LRB- which binds the factors OAP and Oct-1 -RRB- and IL-2E -LRB- which binds NF-AT -RRB-, and completely substitutes for the Ca2 + co-stimulus required to stimulate an NF-kappa B-dependent element.
Calcineurin stimulates the NF-kappa B element by enhancing inactivation of I kappa B/MAD3, an inhibitor of NF-kappa B, thereby increasing the amount of nuclear NF-kappa B DNA binding activity.
Autoregulation of the NF-kappa B transactivator RelA -LRB- p65 -RRB- by multiple cytoplasmic inhibitors containing ankyrin motifs.
RelA -LRB- p65 -RRB- functions as the critical transactivating component of the heterodimeric p50-p65 NF-kappa B complex and contains a high-affinity binding site for its cytoplasmic inhibitor, I kappa B alpha.
After cellular activation, I kappa B alpha is rapidly degraded in concert with the induced nuclear translocation of NF-kappa B..
The present study demonstrates that tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced degradation of I kappa B alpha in human T cells is preceded by its rapid phosphorylation in vivo.
However, these effects on I kappa B alpha result in nuclear mobilization of only a fraction of the entire cytoplasmic pool of RelA.
Subsequent studies have revealed that -LRB- i -RRB- cytoplasmic RelA is stably associated not only with I kappa B alpha but also with other ankyrin motif-rich proteins including the products of the NF-kappa B2 -LRB- p100 -RRB- and NF-kappa B1 -LRB- p105 -RRB- genes ; -LRB- ii -RRB- in contrast to RelA-I kappa B alpha, RelA-p100 cytoplasmic complexes are not dissociated following tumor necrosis factor alpha activation ; -LRB- iii -RRB- p100 functions as a potent inhibitor of RelA-mediated transcription in vivo ; -LRB- iv -RRB- the interaction of RelA and p100 involves the conserved Rel homology domain of both proteins but not the nuclear localization signal of RelA, which is required for I kappa B alpha binding ; -LRB- v -RRB- p100 inhibition of RelA function requires the C-terminal ankyrin motif domain, which mediates cytoplasmic retention of RelA ; and -LRB- vi -RRB- as observed with I kappa B alpha, nuclear RelA stimulates p100 mRNA and protein expression.
These findings thus reveal the presence of a second inducible autoregulated inhibitory pathway that helps ensure the rapid but transient action of nuclear NF-kappa B..
Human T cell transcription factor GATA-3 stimulates HIV-1 expression.
A family of transcriptional activating proteins, the GATA factors, has been shown to bind to a consensus motif through a highly conserved C4 zinc finger DNA binding domain.
One member of this multigene family, GATA-3, is most abundantly expressed in T lymphocytes, a cellular target for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- infection and replication.
In vitro DNase I footprinting analysis revealed six hGATA-3 binding sites in the U3 region -LRB- the transcriptional regulatory domain -RRB- of the HIV-1 LTR.
Cotransfection of an hGATA-3 expression plasmid with a reporter plasmid whose transcription is directed by the HIV-1 LTR resulted in 6 - to 10-fold stimulation of LTR-mediated transcription, whereas site specific mutation of these GATA sites resulted in virtual abrogation of the activation by hGATA-3.
Further, deletion of the hGATA-3 transcriptional activation domain abolished GATA-dependent HIV-1 trans-activation, showing that the stimulation of viral transcription observed is a direct effect of cotransfected hGATA-3.
Introduction of the HIV-1 plasmids in which the GATA sites have been mutated into human T lymphocytes also caused a significant reduction in LTR-mediated transcription at both the basal level and in -LRB- PHA - plus PMA - -RRB- stimulated T cells.
Analysis of the preexisting and nuclear forms of nuclear factor of activated T cells.
The nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NF-AT -RRB- 3 is an inducible DNA-binding protein that is essential for transcriptional induction of the IL-2 gene during T cell activation.
We have previously shown that nuclear extracts from activated T cells form two inducible NF-AT complexes with an oligonucleotide corresponding to the distal NF-AT site of the murine IL-2 promoter, although hypotonic extracts of unstimulated T cells form a single complex containing NF-ATp.
We show that the ability to detect NF-ATp in a gel shift assay, which is essential for purification and biochemical studies of this protein, is strikingly dependent on the precise sequence of the NF-AT oligonucleotide used as the labeled probe.
Moreover we present evidence that the component that forms the faster-migrating -LRB- `` lower '' -RRB- nuclear NF-AT complex is derived by a calcium-dependent, cyclosporin-sensitive, posttranslational modification of NF-ATp, and that Fos and Jun proteins stabilize its interaction with DNA.
The results are discussed in the context of a model relating the two nuclear NF-AT complexes to NF-ATp.
Enhancing effect of 17 beta-estradiol on human NK cell activity.
The in vitro effect of 17 beta-estradiol on NK activity was studied.
The proliferation and NK activity of YT-N17 -LRB- a human NK-like cell line -RRB- were enhanced by 17 beta-estradiol -LRB- E2 -RRB-, and the enhancement was blocked by tamoxifen -LRB- Tx -RRB-, an antagonist of E2.
On the contrary, other steroid hormones such as Tx, progesterone, and testosterone had no effect.
YT-N17 contained 11.8 fmol/mg protein of estrogen receptor -LRB- mean of two independent assays -RRB-, a value which was 5-10-fold higher than that of other hematopoietic cell lines.
An enhancement of NK activity by E2 was also seen in large granular lymphocytes obtained from normal subjects, and it was again suppressed by Tx.
Cytokine modulation of HIV expression.
Cytokines, the peptide hormones which control the homeostasis of the immune system and also play a fundamental role in inflammatory and immune mediated reactions, have been involved at multiple levels in the pathogenesis of the acquired immune deficiency syndrome -LRB- AIDS -RRB-.
Infection with the human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- has been shown to induce production of several cytokines both in vitro and in vivo.
Conversely, several cytokines modulate the levels of HIV expression in infected cells of both T lymphocytic and mononuclear phagocytic lineage.
Activated mononuclear cells, particularly B cells which are in a state of chronic activation in HIV infected individuals, release HIV-inductive cytokines and thus play a potentially important role in the pathogenesis of HIV infection.
Tumor necrosis factor receptor expression and signal transduction in HIV-1-infected cells.
OBJECTIVE : To examine the inter-relationship between HIV-1 infection and the cell surface receptors for tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- - alpha, an immunoregulatory cytokine that can enhance HIV-1 replication.
DESIGN : Infected promyelocytic and promonocytic cells were examined because they normally express both types of TNF receptors.
METHODS : TNF receptor surface expression was determined by specific monoclonal antibody recognition and flow cytometry, and signal transduction was detected by gel shift analysis.
HIV-1 activation and expression was quantitated by reverse transcriptase assay.
RESULTS : In the OM-10 .1 promyelocytic model of chronic infection, TNF-alpha-induced HIV-1 expression also resulted in a substantial increase in 75 kd TNF receptor -LRB- TR75 -RRB- expression although 55 kD TNF receptor -LRB- TR55 -RRB- levels were not dramatically altered.
A series of uninfected parental HL-60 subclones all reduced TR75 surface expression in response to TNF-alpha treatment.
Enhanced TR75 expression on OM-10 .1 cells followed the same TNF-alpha-dose dependency as that observed for HIV-1 production.
An increase in TR75 expression was also evident during the peak of an acute HIV-1 infection of HL-60 promyelocytes.
Although TR55 expression was unaltered during TNF-alpha-induced HIV activation, this receptor was still involved in the viral activation process.
Antibody cross-linking of TR55, in the absence of exogenous TNF-alpha, induced maximal HIV-1 expression, an up-modulation of surface TR75, and nuclear NF-kappa B activity in OM-10 .1 cultures.
Surprisingly, this was the case even when an antagonistic anti-TR55 antibody was used.
FK506 and ciclosporin : molecular probes for studying intracellular signal transduction.
The immunosuppressants ciclosporin and FK506 block the Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - dependent signal-transduction pathway emanating from the T-cell receptor, thereby inhibiting the activation of helper T cells.
Using these drugs as probes, chemists and biologists have uncovered several intracellular signalling molecules bridging the generation of second-messenger Ca2 + ions and the transcriptional activation of IL-2, among which are calmodulin, calcineurin and the nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NF-AT -RRB-.
As described by Jun Liu, these drugs manifest their effects in an unprecedented fashion.
They do not directly intercept intracellular signalling molecules.
Instead, they form tight complexes with two different classes of abundant cytosolic receptors called immunophilins upon entering the cell, and consequently inhibit their peptidyl prolyl cis-trans isomerase activities.
The two structurally distinct immunophilin-drug complexes bind to, and inhibit, the phosphatase activity of calcineurin.
The impaired transcription factor AP-1 DNA binding activity in lymphocytes derived from subjects with some symptoms of premature aging.
The main feature of cellular senescence in vitro is cessation of cell proliferation.
Down syndrome -LRB- DS -RRB- and neuronal ceroid-lypofuscinosis -LRB- NCL -RRB- are clinically characterized by the premature onset of numerous features normally associated with human aging.
Phytohemagglutinin stimulated lymphocytes derived from DS subjects showed a statistically significant diminished proliferation capacity in comparison with lymphocytes derived from NCL and healthy individuals.
We demonstrated, by applying the electrophoretic mobility shift assay, slightly impaired AP-1 DNA binding activity in NCL lymphocytes and strong in DS ones.
Inhibition of HIV-1 latency reactivation by dehydroepiandrosterone -LRB- DHEA -RRB- and an analog of DHEA.
The initial infection with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- in most individuals usually results in the establishment of a latent or chronic infection before eventual progression toward acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
HIV-1 can also establish a latent or persistent infection in some T cell lines that show minimal constitutive virus expression.
Various gene products from other viruses -LRB- HTLV-1, HSV, EBV, CMV, HBV, and HHV-6 -RRB- can also enhance HIV-1 long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- - driven reporter gene activity.
So far, there are no drugs or therapy available that can provide protection against HIV-1 latency reactivation.
ACH-2, derived from a human T cell line -LRB- CEM -RRB-, is chronically infected with HIV-1, with low levels of constitutive virus expression.
ACH-2 can be converted to productive infection by stimulation of the cells with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB-, mitogen or cytokines -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB-, or infection with HSV.
Therefore the ACH-2 cell line is a good candidate for studying the effects of drugs on HIV-1 activation.
Previously, we have reported that DHEA and synthetic analogs of DHEA can be modest inhibitors of HIV-1 IIIB replication in phytohemagglutinin-stimulated peripheral blood lymphocyte cultures.
-LRB- ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS -RRB-.
Cellular immune and cytokine pathways resulting in tissue factor expression and relevance to septic shock.
Cells of monocyte lineage serve as effector cells in the cellular immune response.
In addition, they respond to LPS and cytokines with activation and expression of inflammatory effector gene products similar to those elicited by the antigen driven response.
The response to antigen proceeds at the T helper cell level through two independent forms of cellular collaboration, contact and lymphokine.
We review the control of expression of the Tissue Factor -LRB- TF -RRB- gene and the function of the TF protein.
Enhancement of expression of TF is observed upon adhesion of Mo to endothelial cells and extracellular matrix proteins, as well as upon engagement of leukocyte integrins.
The biological effects that follow from expression of TF by vascular cells have been resolved by analysis of function aided by the use of recombinant full length TF and truncated surface domain of TF.
The rules of assembly of the cognate ligands of TF, namely the zymogen plasma factors VII and the serine protease factor VIIa, with the soluble surface domain of TF in free solution, in the presence of phospholipid surfaces and cell surface and of the anchored TF molecule have been described.
It is evident that assembly of the surface domain of TF with VIIa to form the binary TF.VIIa complex induces a significant increase in the Kcat of the catalytic domain of VIIa for small peptidyl substrates and more profoundly for protein substrate.
This provides substantial evidence for an allosteric effect on the catalytic cleft of VIIa that is imparted by binding to TF, its cognate catalytic cofactor.
It is also evident that the TF.VIIa complex is proteolytically active and can activate the zymogen plasma factor X to the serine protease Xa in free solution, inferring that extended substrate recognition by induced structural loci of the TF.VIIa complex are created from either or both proteins to constitute a new recognition structure.
It is also evident that association of X with charged phospholipid surfaces enhances the proteolytic activation of this zymogen by increasing recognition and susceptibility of the sessile peptide bond deduced from the markedly decreased Km and increased Kcat.
Visualization of the endogenous NF-kappa B p50 subunit in the nucleus of follicular dendritic cells in germinal centers.
NF-kappa B, a 50 kDa/65 kDa -LRB- p50/p65 -RRB- heterodimer, is a ubiquitous transcription factor involved in the positive regulation of various immune genes.
By immunohistochemistry, p50 protein was detected in the cytoplasm and nucleus of FDC, confirming the involvement of FDC.
Furthermore, p50 protein was detected in the cytoplasm of all lymphocytes.
Thus, we focused our study on isolated FDC clusters from normal tonsils.
As showed on tissue sections, we detected the p50 in both cytoplasm and nucleus of FDC.
Nuclei of lymphocytes from FDC clusters were negative.
We next studied p65 and c-Rel protein expression in FDC clusters.
p65 was detected in the cytoplasm of FDC, whereas nuclei were negative.
Furthermore, p65 was detected in the nuclei of some lymphocytes.
c-Rel protein was detected only in the cytoplasm of lymphocytes and not in the nucleus and cytoplasm of FDC.
Involvement of transcription factor YB-1 in human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I basal gene expression.
We previously identified and analyzed a 45-nucleotide sequence -LRB- downstream regulatory element 1 -LSB- DRE 1 -RSB- -RRB-, +195 to +240, at the boundary of the R/U5 region of the long terminal repeat which is required for HTLV-I basal transcription.
We identified a protein, p37, which specifically bound to DRE 1.
An affinity column fraction, containing p37, stimulated HTLV-I transcription approximately 12-fold in vitro.
We now report the identification of a cDNA clone -LRB- 15B-7 -RRB-, from a Jurkat expression library, that binds specifically to the DRE 1 regulatory sequence.
Binding of the cDNA fusion protein, similarly to the results obtained with purified Jurkat protein, was decreased by introduction of site-specific mutations in the DRE 1 regulatory sequence.
In vitro transcription and translation of 15B-7 cDNA produced a fusion protein which bound specifically to the HTLV-I +195 to +240 oligonucleotide.
The partial cDNA encodes a protein which is homologous to the C-terminal 196 amino acids of the 36-kDa transcription factor, YB-1.
Cotransfection of a YB-1 expression plasmid increases HTLV-I basal transcription approximately 14-fold in Jurkat T lymphocytes.
Chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans and the human immune system.
1. Blood cell receptors in volunteers with moderately increased body burdens.
Using monoclonal antibodies -LRB- mAbs -RRB- and flow cytometry, we studied a variety of surface receptors on lymphocyte subpopulations of workers with moderately increased body burdens of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin -LRB- TCDD -RRB- and of other polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans -LRB- PCDD/PCDF -RRB-, expressed here as International-Toxicity Equivalencies -LRB- I-TE -RRB-.
These are : helper-inducer -LRB- memory -RRB- T cells -LRB- CD4 + CD45R0 + CD45RA-CD29highCD11a + -RRB-, CD20 + B cells, and cytotoxic T cells -LRB- CD8 + CD56 + / CD57 + -RRB-.
Regression analysis of our data revealed slight trends for some of the biomarkers -LRB- e.g..
CD45R0 + -RRB-.
With one exception, these were all increases.
None of the alterations observed are of medical relevance.
The slight increase in the percentage of CD4 + CD45R0 + cells remained significant even after covariant analysis taking age-related changes into account.
Adult humans certainly are less susceptible to this action of PCDDs/PCDFs than adolescent Callithrix jacchus.
The lymphotoxin promoter is stimulated by HTLV-I tax activation of NF-kappa B in human T-cell lines.
The HTLV-I transcriptional activator tax was used to gain insight into the mechanism of lymphotoxin -LRB- LT ; TNF-beta -RRB- gene induction.
Tax-expressing cell lines produce LT biologic activity.
An LT promoter -LRB- LT-293 -RRB- CAT construct that contained an NF-kappa B site was active in the LT-producing C81-66-45 cell line, which contains defective HTLV-I but expresses tax.
The observation that a mutated LT-kappa B construct -LRB- M1-CAT -RRB- was inactive in C81-66-45, confirmed the importance of NF-kappa B in LT gene expression.
Tax was transfected into HTLV-I-negative human T-cell lines.
Jurkat T cells stably expressing tax contained elevated levels of NF-kappa B that directly bound to the LT-kappa B site.
Tax co-transfected with reporter constructs into Jurkat cells maximally activated HTLV-I-LTR-CAT and kappa B-fos-CAT and also activated LT-293 to a lesser extent.
In JM T cells, tax induced LT-293 activity by two - to four-fold, though there was no induction of M1-CAT.
The increase in LT-293 CAT activity mirrored the increase in LT biologic activity seen under these conditions.
Transient pseudohypoaldosteronism in obstructive renal disease with transient reduction of lymphocytic aldosterone receptors.
Results in two affected infants.
We report two patients with transient pseudohypoaldosteronism due to obstructive renal disease.
Both patients presented with a salt-losing episode simulating adrenal insufficiency.
In one patient, transient reduction of aldosterone receptors could be documented, while in the second patient the clinical and biochemical parameters were consistent with transient pseudohypoaldosteronism.
Aldosterone receptors were normal in both patients when studied after the surgical correction of the obstruction.
The macrophage transcription factor PU .1 directs tissue-specific expression of the macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor.
The macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- M-CSF -RRB- receptor is expressed in a tissue-specific fashion from two distinct promoters in monocytes/macrophages and the placenta.
In order to further understand the transcription factors which play a role in the commitment of multipotential progenitors to the monocyte/macrophage lineage, we have initiated an investigation of the factors which activate the M-CSF receptor very early during the monocyte differentiation process.
Here we demonstrate that the human monocytic M-CSF receptor promoter directs reporter gene activity in a tissue-specific fashion.
Here we demonstrate that both in vitro-translated PU .1 and PU .1 from nuclear extracts bind to a specific site in the M-CSF receptor promoter just upstream from the major transcription initiation site.
Mutations in this site which eliminate PU .1 binding decrease M-CSF receptor promoter activity significantly in macrophage cell lines only.
Furthermore, PU .1 transactivates the M-CSF receptor promoter in nonmacrophage cells.
BACKGROUND.
METHOD.
A Western blot analysis was used to investigate HER-2 / neu expression, whereas a chromium-release assay using the K562 cell line as target was used to measure natural killer -LRB- NK -RRB- cell activity.
RESULTS.
In patients with breast cancer, NK cell activity was significantly higher compared with patients with benign tumors -LRB- P = 0.006 -RRB- or healthy control subjects -LRB- P = 0.002 -RRB-.
Moreover, 23.3 % of patients with breast cancer showed an overexpression of HER-2 / neu protein.
Within this group of patients, NK cell activity was significantly lower -LRB- 45.6 + / - 16.1 % -RRB- compared with the group with no HER-2 / neu overexpression -LRB- 57.3 + / - 11.0 % -RRB-.
NK cell activity did not increase in patients with HER-2 / neu overexpression.
Thus, there was a statistically significant correlation of cytolytic effector cell function with HER-2 / neu expression of the tumor -LRB- P = 0.003 -RRB-, and HER-2 / neu overexpression correlated with a negative estrogen receptor status -LRB- P = 0.005 -RRB-.
CONCLUSION.
Characterization and purification of a protein kinase C substrate in human B cells.
Identification as lymphocyte-specific protein 1 -LRB- LSP1 -RRB-.
Incubation of B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia -LRB- B-CLL -RRB- cells with phorbol esters resulted in the phosphorylation of two major PKC substrates, MARCKS -LRB- myristoylated, alanine-rich C kinase substrate -RRB- and MRP -LRB- MARCKS-related protein -RRB-, and of a third protein, with an apparent m.w. of 60,000 that was the most prominent protein kinase C substrate in these cells.
p60 phosphorylation was time and PMA dose dependent, and was induced by cell-permeable diacylglycerol, but not by inactive phorbol esters.
Two-dimensional electrophoretic analysis of the protein phosphorylation pattern from the B cell line CESS demonstrated the identity between the p60 protein expressed in this cell line and that expressed in B-CLL cells.
p60 was purified from CESS cells and peptide microsequencing of this protein revealed that it was lymphocyte-specific protein 1 -LRB- LSP1 -RRB-, that is here characterized as the most prominent protein kinase C substrate in B cells.
Selective effects of DNA damaging agents on HIV long terminal repeat activation and virus replication in vitro.
Much attention has recently focused on the observation that UV light can activate the long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- of the human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB-.
In this report, we present data demonstrating that HIV LTR activation is not a general consequence of cellular DNA damage, but rather a process unique to specific genotoxic stimuli, and that it does not necessarily depend on activation of NF-kappa B..
Furthermore, we demonstrate that several of these agents can significantly increase HIV replication and accelerate CD4-positive lymphocyte cytotoxicity in vitro.
BCL-6 and the molecular pathogenesis of B-cell lymphoma.
The results presented identify the first genetic lesion associated with DLCL, the most clinically relevant form of NHL.
A more precise definition of the role of BCL-6 in normal and neoplastic B-cell development is the goal of ongoing study of transgenic mice engineered either to express BCL-6 under heterologous promoters or lacking BCL-6 function due to targeted deletions.
DLCL represent a heterogeneous group of neoplasms which are treated homogeneously despite the fact that only 50 % of patients experience long-term disease-free survival -LRB- Schneider et al. 1990 -RRB-.
Furthermore, the BCL-6 rearrangements can be used to identify and monitor the malignant clone with sensitive PCR-based techniques.
Changes in triiodothyronine -LRB- T3 -RRB- mononuclear leukocyte receptor kinetics after T3 administration and multiple cold-air exposures.
Repeated cold-air exposures increase human triiodothyronine -LRB- T3 -RRB- plasma clearance rates.
To study the response of the nuclear T3 receptor -LRB- NT3R -RRB- in this condition, binding characteristics were analyzed in human mononuclear leukocytes -LRB- MNL -RRB-.
In addition, we supplemented one group of individuals with a daily oral replacement dose of T3 to isolate the influence of serum thyroxine -LRB- T4 -RRB- and thyrotropin -LRB- TSH -RRB- levels on receptor kinetics.
The subjects were exposed to cold air -LRB- 4 degrees C -RRB- twice/d, 30 min/exposure, for a total of 80 exposures.
The T3-subjects received placebo -LSB- n = 8 -RSB- and the T3 + subjects received T3 -LRB- 30 micrograms/d -RRB- -LSB- n = 8 -RSB- in a double-blind fashion.
Mononuclear leukocytes were isolated from peripheral blood before the cold exposure and drug regimen began, and then after every 20 exposures.
The dissociation constant -LRB- Kd -RRB- and maximum binding capacity -LRB- MBC -RRB- of the NT3R values were log transformed to minimize between-subject variability.
In the T3 + group, serum total thyroxine -LRB- TT4 -RRB-, free T4 -LRB- FT4 -RRB-, and TSH were approx 50 % lower than both basal and T3-values.
The log10Kd increased 0.304 + / - 0.139 -LRB- p < 0.04 -RRB- and the log10MBC increased 0.49 + / - 0.10 -LRB- p < 0.001 -RRB- in the T3 + subjects compared to baseline.
This change in MBC represents a 311 % increase in the MBC over baseline and a fivefold increase over placebo-treated subjects.
The T3 - group showed no change in MBC over the study.
These results describe for the first time the rapid modulation of the NT3R in response to the combined influence of cold exposure and reduced circulating T4 and TSH.
Cloning and characterization of NF-ATc and NF-ATp : the cytoplasmic components of NF-AT.
Present evidence indicates a pathway of signal transmission in T cells that is outlined in figure 1.
The elevation in intracellular calcium that is induced by interactions at the antigen receptor leads to the activation of the calcium-dependent phosphatase calcineurin.
This in turn leads to the nuclear association of the cytosolic component of NF-ATc.
The activation of calcineurin and the nuclear import of NF-ATc can both be blocked by cyclosporin A or FK506 in complex with their respective immunophilins.
Once in the nucleus, NF-ATc interacts with NF-ATn to form an active transcriptional complex.
NF-ATn is a ubiquitous protein, can be synthesized in response to PMA, and has many similarities to AP-1.
Although NF-ATp copurifies with NF-ATc, there is as yet no understanding of how NF-ATp is functioning in vivo.
Now that these proteins are purified and cloned, the major goals will be to understand their role and the roles of other family members in thymic development.
Alteration of structural order of human erythrocyte ghost membrane by glucocorticoids and the influence of the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU 486.
High-dose pulse glucocorticoid therapy has been used successfully in the clinic in severe pathological conditions for about 20 years.
The mode of glucocorticoid action after administration of such megadoses is inexplicable up to now.
In the present in-vitro experiments the effect of dexamethasone, of further glucocorticoids, and of the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU 486, on structural order of human erythrocyte ghost membranes was investigated by determining the steady-state fluorescence anisotropy of diphenylhexatriene -LRB- DPH -RRB-.
Dexamethasone was found to induce a significant decrease in membrane structural order at concentrations of about 10 -LRB- -6 -RRB- M in a concentration-dependent manner.
We found a correlation between the uptake of dexamethasone by the ghost membranes and the decrease in the structural order.
The other glucocorticoids tested, methylprednisolone and corticosterone, were also effective at concentrations of 10 -LRB- -5 -RRB- M or greater.
We observed no change in membrane structural order with RU 486 up to a concentration of 10 -LRB- -4 -RRB- M..
However, simultaneous incubation of RU 486 with dexamethasone caused a distinct interference of RU 486 with dexamethasone.
Alternate immune system targets for TCDD : lymphocyte stem cells and extrathymic T-cell development.
We here summarize evidence that thymic atrophy induced by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin -LRB- TCDD -RRB- can be mediated, at least in part, by damage to extrathymic T-cell precursors in bone marrow and fetal liver.
This atrophy induction does not involve apoptotic mechanisms in thymocytes affected by the bcl-2 proto-oncogene.
TCDD mediates atrophy induction through its specific receptor -LRB- the AhR -RRB- and not through effects on the estrogen receptor.
Both TCDD and estradiol induce extrathymic T-cell differentiation in the liver.
These extrathymic T-cell populations include cells expressing elevated levels of V beta T-cell receptors that are normally deleted in thymic development.
-LSB- The changes in glucocorticoid receptors in peripheral leukocytes in asthmatic subjects -RSB-.
The number of glucocorticoid receptors -LRB- GCR -RRB- in peripheral leukocytes was determined by radioligand-binding assay in extrinsic and intrinsic asthmatics.
Their corresponding plasma cortisol levels were assessed.
The results showed that the average number of GCR in asthmatics was significantly lower than that in healthy subjects -LRB- P < 0.01 -RRB-, and there was a linear correlation between the number of GCR and the course of asthma.
Besides, there was also a linear correlation between the number of GCR and the age of the initial attack of asthma.
No difference in plasma cortisol level was found between asthmatics and healthy subjects.
Recombinant NFAT1 -LRB- NFATp -RRB- is regulated by calcineurin in T cells and mediates transcription of several cytokine genes.
Transcription factors of the NFAT family play a key role in the transcription of cytokine genes and other genes during the immune response.
We have identified two new isoforms of the transcription factor NFAT1 -LRB- previously termed NFATp -RRB- that are the predominant isoforms expressed in murine and human T cells.
When expressed in Jurkat T cells, recombinant NFAT1 is regulated, as expected, by the calmodulin-dependent phosphatase calcineurin, and its function is inhibited by the immunosuppressive agent cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB-.
Transactivation by recombinant NFAT1 in Jurkat T cells requires dual stimulation with ionomycin and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ;.
this activity is potentiated by coexpression of constitutively active calcineurin and is inhibited by CsA.
When expressed in COS cells, however, NFAT1 is capable of transactivation, but it is not regulated correctly :.
its subcellular localization and transcriptional function are not affected by stimulation of the COS cells with ionomycin and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate.
Modulation of the expression of the IFN-gamma receptor beta-chain controls responsiveness to IFN-gamma in human peripheral blood T cells.
IFN-gamma has potent antiproliferative and apoptotic effects in T cells that are important in determining T cell development and polarized differentiation.
In this work, we show that human peripheral blood T cells that are stimulated through the TCR and expanded with IL-2 are unresponsive to IFN-gamma, as determined by a lack of activation of jak kinases and the transcription factor, STAT1 -LRB- alpha -RRB-, a signal transducer and activator of transcription.
This nonresponsiveness occurs because of a lack of expression of the beta - chain -LRB- accessory factor -RRB- of the IFN-gamma receptor, while at the same time maintaining IFN-gamma receptor alpha-chain expression.
Expression of the beta-chain can be restored by secondary TCR ligation or PMA treatment.
T cell blasts treated with PMA are now responsive to IFN-gamma.
When freshly isolated, highly enriched -LRB- > 98 % -RRB- T cells are examined for IFN-gamma responsiveness ;.
these cells can respond to IFN-gamma and express beta-chain.
Transcription factors of T and B lymphocytes -- basic research and clinical perspectives for gastroenterology.
Tissue specific regulation of gene expression by transcription factors is a fascinating new field in molecular immunology.
This review summarizes data on specific regulation of promoters and enhancers by nuclear trans-acting factors in lymphocytes.
The structural classes of transcription factors are described and basic methods for detection and analysis of transcription factors are detailed.
Furthermore, the most important trans-acting factors of T and B lymphocytes -LRB- e.g. NF-kB, NF-AT and STAT families -RRB- and their functional importance are described.
The data are discussed with regard to their potential clinical relevance for gastroenterology.
Age-related decreases in IL-2 production by human T cells are associated with impaired activation of nuclear transcriptional factors AP-1 and NF-AT.
In the current studies, IL-2 production by T cells from elderly -LRB- mean 78 years -RRB- and young -LRB- mean 37 years -RRB- humans was measured in cultures stimulated with PHA, PHA plus PMA, crosslinked anti-CD3 mAB OKT3 plus PMA, or PMA plus ionomycin.
Substantial decreases of IL-2 production were observed for cell cultures from 7 of 12 elderly individuals in response to the different stimuli, whereas the levels of IL-2 produced by stimulated T cells from other elderly individuals were equivalent to those observed for stimulated T cells of young subjects.
Analyses of nuclear extracts by electrophoretic DNA mobility shift assays showed that decreased IL-2 production by stimulated T cells of elderly individuals was closely associated with impairments in the activation of both AP-1 and NF-AT.
By contrast, T cells from elderly subjects with normal levels of IL-2 production exhibited normal activation of AP-1 and NF-AT.
In addition, the results of competition experiments analyzing the normal components of NF-AT showed that the age-related reductions in stimulus-dependent NF-AT complexes corresponded to the slow migrating complexes that were composed of c-Fos/c-Jun AP-1.
The resting and stimulated levels of NF kappa B were reduced in T cells from certain elderly individuals ;.
however, alterations of NF kappa B did not correlate with changes in IL-2 expression.
Activation of nuclear factor of activated T cells in a cyclosporin A-resistant pathway.
The mechanism of action of the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB- is the inactivation of the Ca2 + / calmodulin-dependent serine-threonine phosphatase calcineurin by the drug-immunophilin complex.
Inactive calcineurin is unable to activate the nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB-, a transcription factor required for expression of the interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- gene.
IL-2 production by CsA-treated cells is therefore dramatically reduced.
We demonstrate here, however, that NFAT can be activated, and significant levels of IL-2 can be produced by the CsA-resistant CD28-signaling pathway.
In transient transfection assays, both multicopy NFAT - and IL-2 promoter-beta-galactosidase reporter gene constructs could be activated by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- / alpha-CD28 stimulation, and this activation was resistant to CsA.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assay showed the induction of a CsA-resistant NFAT complex in the nuclear extracts of peripheral blood T cells stimulated with PMA plus alphaCD28.
Peripheral blood T cells stimulated with PMA/alphaCD28 produced IL-2 in the presence of CsA.
Effects of interleukin-10 on human peripheral blood mononuclear cell responses to Cryptococcus neoformans, Candida albicans, and lipopolysaccharide.
We compared the effects of the deactivating cytokine interleukin 10 -LRB- IL-10 -RRB- on human peripheral blood mononuclear cell -LRB- PBMC -RRB- responses to lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-, Cryptococcus neoformans, and Candida albicans.
IL-10 effected dose-dependent inhibition of tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- release in PBMC stimulated by LPS and C. neoformans, with significant inhibition seen with 0.1 U/ml and greater than 90 % inhibition noted with 10 U/ml.
In contrast, even at doses as high as 100 U/ml, IL-10 inhibited TNF-alpha release in response to C. albicans by only 50 %.
IL-10 profoundly inhibited release of IL-1beta from PBMC stimulated by all three stimuli.
TNF-alpha mRNA and release was inhibited even if IL-10 was added up to 8 h after cryptococcal stimulation.
In contrast, inhibition of IL-1 beta mRNA was of lesser magnitude and occurred only when IL-10 was added within 2 h of cryptococcal stimulation.
IL-10 inhibited translocation of NF-kappaB in response to LPS but not the fungal stimuli.
All three stimuli induced IL-10 production in PBMC, although over 10-fold less IL-10 was released in response to C. neoformans compared with LPS and C. albicans.
Thus, while IL-10 has deactivating effects on PBMC responses to all three stimuli, disparate stimulus - and response-specific patterns of deactivation are seen.
IL-13 induces phosphorylation and activation of JAK2 Janus kinase in human colon carcinoma cell lines :.
similarities between IL-4 and IL-13 signaling.
Here we report that both IL-4 and IL-13 share signaling events in human colon carcinoma cell lines -LRB- HT-29 and WiDr -RRB-.
IL-13 caused rapid phosphorylation of the three out of four members of the known Janus family of kinases -LRB- JAKs -RRB-.
We show that JAK2 kinase is rapidly phosphorylated and activated in response to IL-13.
Within 1 min of activation, JAK2 was phosphorylated, and peaked in 10 min.
In addition, IL-13 phosphorylated insulin response substrate-1, IL-4R p140, JAK1, and Tyk2, but not JAK3 kinase.
IL-4 also stimulated all three kinases and substrates, but unlike in immune cells, IL-4 did not involve JAK3 activation for its signaling in colon cancer cell lines.
Furthermore, JAK2 associated with the IL-4R p140 before and after stimulation with IL-13.
Both IL-13 and IL-4 induced phosphorylation of IL-4 STAT -LRB- STAT6 -RRB- but not STAT1, STAT3, or STAT5.
125I-IL-13 did not bind to colon cancer cell lines, but unlabeled IL-13 competed for the binding of 125I-IL-4.
Differential regulation of IL-6 gene transcription and expression by IL-4 and IL-10 in human monocytic cell lines.
IL-4 and IL-10 inhibit the cytokine production and mRNA expression by monocytes/macrophages.
To investigate the molecular mechanism of the inhibitory effect on transcriptional or post-transcriptional regulation of IL-6 gene expression by IL-4 and IL-10, we studied IL-6 production, expression level of IL-6 mRNA, IL-6 promoter activity, transcriptional activity of NF-kappaB and NF-IL-6, and IL-6 mRNA stability in human monocytic cell lines, THP-1 and U937, stimulated by PMA and LPS in the absence or the presence of IL-4 or IL-10.
Both IL-4 and IL-10 were seen to inhibit IL-6 production and the expression of IL-6 mRNA in both monocytic cell lines studied.
In chloramphenicol acetyltransferase assays, utilizing the transient transfection of a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter plasmid containing the IL-6 gene promoter, IL-4, but not IL-10, suppressed the transcriptional activity of the IL-6 gene promoter stimulated by PMA and LPS.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays showed that IL-4, but not IL-10, inhibited nuclear NF-kappaB activity, and that IL-4 and IL-10 did not affect NF-IL-6 activity.
On the other hand, IL-10 enhanced the degradation of IL-6 mRNA in a mRNA stability assay.
Therefore, we conclude that IL-4 and IL-10 inhibit IL-6 production by different mechanisms in human monocytic cell lines.
Calcineurin potentiates activation of the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor gene in T cells :.
involvement of the conserved lymphokine element 0.
Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB- and interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- are produced by stimulation with phorbol-12-myristate acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- and calcium ionophore -LRB- A23187 -RRB- in human T cell leukemia Jurkat cells.
The expression of GM-CSF and IL-2 is inhibited by immunosuppressive drugs such as cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB- and FK506.
Earlier studies on the IL-2 gene expression showed that overexpression of calcineurin -LRB- CN -RRB-, a Ca2 + / calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase, can stimulate transcription from the IL-2 promoter through the NF-AT-binding site.
In this study, we obtained evidence that transfection of the cDNAs for CN A -LRB- catalytic -RRB- and CN B -LRB- regulatory -RRB- subunits also augments transcription from the GM-CSF promoter and recovers the transcription inhibited by CsA.
The constitutively active type of the CN A subunit, which lacks the auto-inhibitory and calmodulin-binding domains, acts in synergy with PMA to activate transcription from the GM-CSF promoter.
We also found that the active CN partially replaces calcium ionophore in synergy with PMA to induce expression of endogenous GM-CSF and IL-2.
By multimerizing the regulatory elements of the GM-CSF promoter, we found that one of the target sites for the CN action is the conserved lymphokine element 0 -LRB- CLE0 -RRB-, located at positions between -54 and -40.
Mobility shift assays showed that the CLE0 sequence has an AP1-binding site and is associated with an NF-AT-like factor, termed NF-CLE0 gamma.
NF-CLE0 gamma binding is induced by PMA/A23187 and is inhibited by treatment with CsA.
Novel aldosterone receptors : specificity-conferring mechanism at the level of the cell membrane.
Functional studies in extra-renal, nonepithelial cells such as smooth muscle cells and more recently circulating human lymphocytes have provided increasing evidence that aldosterone produces not only classical genomic effects, but also rapid non-genomic effects on transmembrane electrolyte movements.
These involve activation of the sodium/proton-exchanger of the cell membrane at very low, physiological concentrations of aldosterone with an acute onset within 1-2 minutes.
A second messenger cascade involved is the inositol-1 ,4,5 - trisphosphate/calcium pathway which responds over the same rapid time course.
Such changes clearly can not be explained by genomic mechanisms, which are responsible for later effects than the membrane-related rapid responses.
In addition to its rapid time course the unique characteristics of this new pathway for steroid action include a 10000-fold selectivity for aldosterone over cortisol and the ineffectiveness of spironolactones, classical mineralocorticoid antagonists, as antagonists of the response.
Subsequently binding sites have been demonstrated in the plasma membrane of human lymphocytes which show pharmacological -LRB- aldosterone specificity -RRB- and kinetic -LRB- high turnover -RRB- properties identical with those of the rapid aldosterone effects in the same cells.
SDS-PAGE analysis of the receptor protein has shown a molecular weight of approximately 50 kD.
The present paper reviews the data supporting a new, two-step model for non-genomic and genomic aldosterone effects.
Patterns of Pan expression and role of Pan proteins in endocrine cell type-specific complex formation.
The Pan gene encodes at least two distinct transcripts, Pan-1 and Pan-2 -LRB- also known as E47 and E12, respectively -RRB-, by the mechanism of alternative RNA splicing.
Northern blot analyses performed on rat and mouse tissues have detected ubiquitously expressed Pan transcripts, but the abundance, distribution, and form of Pan proteins have not been clearly defined.
We have developed a monoclonal antibody, Yae, which is specific for Pan/E2A proteins, and have used the Yae antibody to examine a variety of endocrine and nonendocrine cell lineages for differences in Pan/E2A protein expression, subcellular localization, and heteromeric complex formation.
In contrast to previous results obtained using polyclonal antiseras to detect Pan/E2A proteins, we report comparable levels of Pan proteins in GH/PRL - and insulin-producing, B - and T-lymphocyte cells.
IEF-1, a pancreatic beta-cell type-specific complex believed to regulate insulin expression, is demonstrated to consist of at least two distinct species, one of which does not contain Pan molecules.
Interferon alpha selectively affects expression of the human myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen in late stage cells in the monocytic but not the granulocytic lineage.
The human myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen -LRB- MNDA -RRB- is expressed constitutively in cells of the myeloid lineage, appearing in myeloblast cells in some cases of acute myeloid leukemia and consistently being detected in promyelocyte stage cells as well as in all later stage cells including peripheral blood monocytes and granulocytes.
The human myeloid leukemia cell lines, HL-60, U937, and THP-1, express similar levels of immunochemically detectable MNDA.
Although, the level of MNDA mRNA in primary monocytes is very low it was up-regulated at 6 h following the addition of interferon alpha.
The effect of interferon alpha on the MNDA mRNA is also observed in the cell lines HL-60, U937, and THP-1.
The MNDA mRNA level in primary granulocytes was unaffected by addition of interferon alpha and other agents including interferon gamma, endotoxin, poly -LRB- I -RRB-. poly -LRB- C -RRB-, and FMLP.
The MNDA mRNA level in the myeloid cell lines was also unaffected by the latter four agents.
Induction of differentiation in the myeloid cell lines with phorbol ester induces monocyte differentiation which was accompanied by a decrease in MNDA mRNA level.
The ability of interferon alpha to up-regulate MNDA mRNA in phorbol ester treated myeloid cell lines is consistent with the observations made in primary monocytes.
-LRB- ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS -RRB-.
Detection of minimal residual disease in a patient with acute promyelocytic leukemia by RT-PCR : necessity of chemotherapy following ATRA therapy.
The PML/RAR alpha fusion gene resulting from the t -LRB- 15 ; 17 -RRB- translocation is a specific marker for acute promyelocytic leukemia -LRB- APL -RRB-.
We examined bone marrow cells by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction -LRB- RT-PCR -RRB- to detect residual PML/RAR alpha mRNA-containing cells following treatment with all-trans retinoic acid -LRB- ATRA -RRB- and cytotoxic chemotherapy in a patient with APL.
This RT-PCR assay can detect one leukemic cell in 10 -LRB- 2 -RRB- normal cells in vitro.
We show that PML/RAR alpha mRNA was still detectable despite clinical remission following ATRA treatment, but undetectable following consolidation with chemotherapy.
These data show that this technique is useful for the identification of minimal residual disease in patients with APL and that cytotoxic chemotherapy following ATRA therapy is required for the elimination of APL cells.
Genes encoding general initiation factors for RNA polymerase II transcription are dispersed in the human genome.
General transcription factors are required for accurate initiation of transcription by RNA polymerase II.
Human cDNAs encoding subunits of these factors have been cloned and sequenced.
Using fluorescence in situ hybridization -LRB- FISH -RRB-, we show here that the genes encoding the TATA-box binding protein -LRB- TBP -RRB-, TFIIB, TFIIE alpha, TFIIE beta, RAP30, RAP74 and the 62 kDa subunit, of TFIIH are located at the human chromosomal bands 6q26-27, 1p21-22, 3q21-24, 8p12, 13q14, 19p13 .3 and 11p14-15 .1, respectively.
Direct exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin -LRB- TCDD -RRB- increases infectivity of human erythrocytes to a malarial parasite.
Direct exposure to 10 nM 2,3,7,8-TCDD caused a 75 % increase and a 2-fold increase in the infectivity of isolated human erythrocytes to P. falciparum after 48 hours when the parasites were in an unsynchronized or synchronized state of growth, respectively.
Treatment of human erythrocytes with 10 microM sodium orthovanadate -LRB- NaOV -RRB-, an inhibitor of plasma membrane Ca-ATPase and phosphotyrosine phosphatase, decreased parasitemia by 30 %.
Co-treatment of RBCs with TCDD and NaOV completely blocked the TCDD-induced increase in parasitemia.
Because erythrocytes are anucleated, these results are discussed as evidence for biochemical changes by TCDD without requiring the activation of gene products.
Comparative mapping of SRY in the great apes.
We have used in situ hybridization to define these rearrangements at the molecular level.
pHU-14, a probe including sequences from the sex determining gene SRY, hybridizes close to the early replicating pseudoautosomal segment in a telomeric or subtelomeric position of the Y chromosomes of all great apes.
The low copy repeat detected by the probe Fr35-II is obviously included in Y chromosomal rearrangements during hominid evolution.
The rest of the Y chromosome has undergone several rearrangements in the different great apes.
Evidence for a trans-acting activator function regulating the expression of the human CD5 antigen.
Interspecies somatic cell hybrids were generated by fusing the mouse T-lymphoma cell line, BW5147, with normal human T lymphocytes at different stages of differentiation.
Thymocytes, activated peripheral T lymphocytes, or an activated T-cell clone were used as human partners, respectively, in three independent fusions.
Irrespective of the human cell partner used for fusion, a certain number of hybrids lost CD5 surface expression over a period of time in culture.
Analysis at the phenotype and genetic level showed that lack of CD5 expression was due neither to segregation of human autosome 11, on which the CD5 gene has been mapped, nor to deletion of the CD5 structural gene.
Furthermore, loss of CD5 surface expression correlated with the absence of specific mRNA.
Since these hybrids preferentially segregate human chromosomes, these results indicate the existence of a non-syntenic trans-active locus, or loci, positively controlling the expression of the human CD5 gene.
Prevalence of aneuploidy, overexpressed ER, and overexpressed EGFR in random breast aspirates of women at high and low risk for breast cancer.
Breast tissue biomarkers which accurately predict breast cancer development within a 10 year period in high risk women are needed but currently not available.
Eligible high risk women were those with a first degree relative with breast cancer, prior breast cancer, or precancerous mastopathy.
Low risk women were those without these or other major identifiable risk factors.
Ductal cells were obtained via random fine needle aspirations and cytologically classified.
Biomarkers included DNA ploidy, estrogen receptor -LRB- ER -RRB-, and epidermal growth factor receptor -LRB- EGFR -RRB-.
The prevalence of DNA aneuploidy was 30 %, overexpression of ER 10 %, and overexpression of EGFR 35 %, in the 206 high risk women whose median 10 year Gail risk -LRB- projected probability -RRB- of developing breast cancer was 4.5 %.
The prevalence of aneuploidy and overexpressed EGFR was significantly higher in the high risk women than in the 25 low risk controls -LRB- p < 0.002 -RRB-, whose median 10 year Gail risk was 0.7 %.
The difference in the prevalence of ER overexpression between high and low risk groups was not statistically significant -LRB- p = 0.095 -RRB-.
A significant difference was noted in the prevalence of one or more abnormal biomarkers between the high risk and low risk women -LRB- p < 0.001 -RRB-.
Multiple prolactin-responsive elements mediate G1 and S phase expression of the interferon regulatory factor-1 gene.
The interferon regulatory factor-1 -LRB- IRF-1 -RRB- gene is both an immediate-early G1 phase gene and an S phase gene inducible by PRL in rat Nb2 T lymphocytes.
To understand the mechanism by which PRL regulates the biphasic expression of IRF-1, we cloned the rat IRF-1 gene and functionally characterized the IRF-1 promoter.
Upon transfection into Nb2 T cells, 1.7 kilobases -LRB- kb -RRB- of IRF-1 5' - flanking DNA linked to a chloramphenicol acetyl transferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- reporter gene mediated a 30-fold induction of CAT enzyme activity in response to 24 h of PRL stimulation.
Deletion mutants containing 1.3, 0.6, and 0.2 kb 5' - flanking DNA were incrementally less transcriptionally active, although 0.2 kb still mediated a 12-fold induction by PRL.
By assaying CAT enzyme activity across a 24-h PRL induction time course, we were able to assign G1 vs. S phase PRL responses of the IRF-1 gene to different regions of the IRF-1 5' - flanking and promoter DNA.
The 0.2-kb IRF-CAT construct was induced by PRL stimulation during the G1 phase of the cell cycle.
In contrast, the 1.7-kb IRF-CAT construct was inducible by PRL during both G1 and S phase of the cell cycle.
elements in the first 0.2 kb of the IRF-1 promoter region act during early activation, and elements between 0.2 and 1.7 kb act in concert with the proximal 0.2-kb region during S phase progression.
Description and functional implications of a novel mutation in the sex-determining gene SRY.
The sex-determining gene SRY was screened for molecular alteration in an XY sex-reversed female by single-strand conformation polymorphism -LRB- SSCP -RRB- technique.
An A-to-G transition was detected which leads to an exchange of a tyrosine by a cysteine in the SRY protein.
The affected tyrosine residue located at the C terminus of the DNA binding protein is evolutionarily strongly conserved among the members of the HMG box containing proteins.
Using gel shift assay and peptide synthesis such a mutation is shown to abolish the SRY protein DNA binding ability.
The involvement of this particular amino acid in the binding specificity is also discussed.
Pentoxifylline for the treatment of infection with human immunodeficiency virus.
Cytokine dysregulation in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- infection has been documented in numerous studies and has been cited as an important component in the pathogenesis of this retroviral infection.
Pentoxifylline, a trisubstituted xanthine derivative, has been used to decrease blood viscosity and is reasonably well tolerated by most recipients of the drug.
Results of preliminary studies, many of which were conducted by Dr..
Increased interleukin 2 transcription in murine lymphocytes by ciprofloxacin.
The fluoroquinolone antibiotic, ciprofloxacin -LRB- cipro -RRB-, induces hyperproduction of interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- and interferon-gamma -LRB- IFN-gamma -RRB- in stimulated human peripheral blood lymphocytes.
In this investigation an enhanced and prolonged IL-2 and IL-2 mRNA response was also detected in both stimulated -LRB- T cell mitogens or alloantigens -RRB- murine splenocytes and in the stimulated murine T cell line EL-4 in the presence of ciprofloxacin -LRB- 5-80 micrograms/ml -RRB- as compared to control cells without antibiotics.
However, in contrast to human lymphocytes, IFN-gamma production was inhibited and IFN-gamma mRNA levels were unaffected at 24 h and only slightly upregulated at 48 and 72 h of culture in murine splenocytes incubated with cipro -LRB- 20 micrograms/ml -RRB-.
EL-4 cells were transfected with a plasmid containing the IL-2 promoter and enhancer region linked to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- reporter gene.
Analysis of CAT activity revealed that cipro enhanced IL-2 gene induction.
In addition, EL-4 cells incubated with ciprofloxacin showed an early peak and more activated nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT-1 -RRB- as compared to control cells without antibiotics.
Cipro did not affect the nuclear transcription factors AP-1 or NFIL-2A.
Taken together, cipro inhibited IFN-gamma synthesis, but enhanced IL-2 production in murine lymphocytes by means of influencing NFAT-1 and causing an increased IL-2 transcription.
Glucocorticoid-mediated inhibition of interleukin-2 receptor alpha and - beta subunit expression by human T cells.
To determine the mechanism of glucocorticoid -LRB- GC -RRB- - mediated inhibition of T cell functions, the effect of dexamethasone -LRB- DM -RRB- on T cell proliferation and interleukin-2 receptor -LRB- IL-2R -RRB- generation were studied.
Dexamethasone inhibited IL-2-induced T cell proliferation by 30 % -88 %, relative to its concentration within the cultures.
The effect of DM on expression of IL-2R alpha -LRB- Tac, p55, CD25 -RRB- and beta -LRB- p75 -RRB- genes in activated T cells was examined next.
In T cells stimulated with purified phytohemagglutinin -LRB- PHA-p -RRB- and 4 beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- addition of DM to the cultures resulted in a 60 % reduction in IL-2R alpha and a 30 % reduction in IL-2R beta membrane expression compared to T cells cultured in the absence of DM -LRB- p < 0.01 -RRB-.
Inhibition of membrane IL-2R alpha and IL-2R beta expression by 10 -LRB- -6 -RRB- M DM was partially reversible by recombinant human IL-2 -LRB- rhIL-2 -RRB-.
By Northern blot analysis, DM caused a comparable decrease in IL-2R alpha and in IL-2R beta mRNA levels to membrane receptor expression in mitogen-stimulated T cells.
By in vitro transcription assays, DM regulated IL-2R alpha gene expression at a transcriptional level while transcription of IL-2R beta gene was unaffected by DM.
The mechanism of action of DM on IL-2R alpha transcription was examined by determining the mRNA levels of the p50 subunit of nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB-, a transcription factor that stimulates IL-2R alpha gene expression.
Further, the level of nuclear proteins capable of binding to the NF-kappa B sites in activated T cells increased in response to DM.
In sum, DM regulates T cell membrane expression of IL-2R by more than one molecular mechanism.
Function and activation of NF-kappa B in the immune system.
NF-kappa B is a ubiquitous transcription factor.
Among these properties are NF-kappa B 's rapid posttranslational activation in response to many pathogenic signals, its direct participation in cytoplasmic/nuclear signaling, and its potency to activate transcription of a great variety of genes encoding immunologically relevant proteins.
The activity of DNA binding NF-kappa B dimers is tightly controlled by accessory proteins called I kappa B subunits of which there are also five different species currently known in vertebrates.
I kappa B proteins inhibit DNA binding and prevent nuclear uptake of NF-kappa B complexes.
An exception is the Bcl-3 protein which in addition can function as a transcription activating subunit in th nucleus.
Other I kappa B proteins are rather involved in terminating NF-kappa B 's activity in the nucleus.
The intracellular events that lead to the inactivation of I kappa B, i.e. the activation of NF-kappa B, are complex.
The human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 posttranscriptional trans-activator Rex contains a nuclear export signal.
The Rex protein of human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 is required for the nuclear export of unspliced viral mRNA and, therefore, for virus replication.
In this manuscript, we demonstrate that Rex shuttles between the nucleus and the cytoplasm and that its activation domain constitutes a nuclear export signal that specifies efficient transport to the cytoplasm.
These findings are consistent with a model for Rex-mediated trans-activation in which Rex-viral mRNA complexes are targeted for nuclear export by the direct action of the activation domain.
Various modes of basic helix-loop-helix protein-mediated regulation of murine leukemia virus transcription in lymphoid cell lines.
The transcriptionally regulatory regions of the lymphomagenic Akv and SL3-3 murine leukemia retroviruses -LRB- MLVs -RRB- contain two types of E-box consensus motifs, CAGATG.
One type, EA/S, is located in the upstream promoter region, and the other, E -LRB- gre -RRB-, is located in a tandem repeat with enhancer properties.
We have examined the requirements of the individual E-boxes in MLV transcriptional regulation.
In lymphoid cell lines only, the E -LRB- gre -RRB- - binding protein complexes included ALF1 or HEB and E2A basic helix-loop-helix proteins.
Ectopic ALF1 and E2A proteins required intact E -LRB- gre -RRB- motifs for mediating transcriptional activation.
ALF1 transactivated transcription of Akv MLV through the two E -LRB- gre -RRB- motifs equally, whereas E2A protein required the promoter-proximal E -LRB- gre -RRB- motif.
In T - and B-cell lines, the E -LRB- gre -RRB- motifs were of major importance for Akv MLV transcriptional activity, while the EA/S motif had some effect.
In contrast, neither E -LRB- gre -RRB- nor EA/S motifs contributed pronouncedly to Akv MLV transcription in NIH 3T3 cells lacking DNA-binding ALF1 or HEB and E2A proteins.
The Id1 protein was found to repress ALF1 activity in vitro and in vivo.
Moreover, ectopic Id1 repressed E -LRB- gre -RRB- - directed but not EA/S-directed MLV transcription in lymphoid cell lines.
In conclusion, E -LRB- gre -RRB- motifs and interacting basic helix-loop-helix proteins are important determinants for MLV transcriptional activity in lymphocytic cell lines.
Protein-tyrosine kinase activation is required for lipopolysaccharide induction of interleukin 1beta and NFkappaB activation, but not NFkappaB nuclear translocation.
In human monocytes, interleukin 1beta protein production and steady state mRNA levels are increased in response to lipopolysaccharide, predominantly as a result of increased transcription of the interleukin 1beta gene.
Expression of interleukin 1beta and other cytokines, such as interleukin 6 and tumor necrosis factor alpha, has been shown to be dependent on the activation of the transcription factor, NFkappaB.
We have found that, in the human pro-monocytic cell line, THP-1, the lipopolysaccharide-induced expression of interleukin 1beta is dependent on tyrosine kinase activation.
Tyrosine kinases are not required for lipopolysaccharide-mediated nuclear translocation of NFkappaB.
However, in the absence of tyrosine kinase activity, the ability of NFkappaB to stimulate transcription is impaired.
This inhibition of transcription is specific for NFkappaB ;.
in the absence of tyrosine kinase activity, AP-1-dependent transcription is enhanced.
Multiple p21ras effector pathways regulate nuclear factor of activated T cells.
The transcription factor, Nuclear Factor of Activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB- is a major target for p21ras and calcium signalling pathways in the IL-2 gene and is induced by p21ras signals acting in synergy with calcium/calcineurin signals.
One p21ras effector pathway involves the MAP kinase ERK-2, and we have examined its role in NFAT regulation.
Expression of dominant negative MAPKK-1 prevents NFAT induction.
Constitutively active MAPKK-1 fully activates ERK-2 and the transcription factor Elk-1, but does not substitute for activated p21ras and synergize with calcium/calcineurin signals to induce NFAT.
Expression of dominant negative N17Rac also prevents TCR and p21ras activation of NFAT, but without interfering with the ERK-2 pathway.
The transcriptional activity of the NFAT binding site is mediated by a complex comprising a member of the NFAT group and AP-1 family proteins.
The induction of AP-1 by p21ras also requires Rac-1 function.
Moreover, the combination of activated MAPKK-1 and Rac-1 could not substitute for activated p21ras and synergize with calcium signals to induce NFAT.
Thus, p21ras regulation of NFAT in T cells requires the activity of multiple effector pathways including those regulated by MAPKK-1 / ERK-2 and Rac-1.
Effects of IL-10 and IL-4 on LPS-induced transcription factors -LRB- AP-1, NF-IL6 and NF-kappa B -RRB- which are involved in IL-6 regulation.
Interleukin-10 -LRB- IL-10 -RRB-, like IL-4, is known to inhibit cytokine expression in activated human monocytes.
We showed that both IL-10 and IL-4 inhibit LPS-induced IL-6 mRNA and protein expression by inhibiting the transcription rate of the IL-6 gene.
The strong inhibition of the IL-6 transcription rate prompted us to study the effect of IL-10 and IL-4 on the expression of transcription factors.
In electrophoretic mobility shift assays -LRB- EMSAs -RRB- we showed that IL-10 and IL-4 inhibited LPS-induced AP-1 binding activity.
The inhibiting effect of IL-4 was slightly more pronounced than that of IL-10.
Binding activity of NF-IL6 was also strongly inhibited by IL-4 whereas IL-10 showed no effect.
Neither IL-10 nor IL-4 inhibited LPS-induced NF-kappa B binding activity.
In agreement with this finding, Northern experiments where p65 and p105 mRNA levels were determined, demonstrated that expression of these components of the NF-kappa B transcription factor were not affected by IL-10 or IL-4.
Furthermore, neither IL-10 nor IL-4 showed any effect on I-kappa B mRNA expression as determined by Northern experiments.
Thus, IL-10 and IL-4 similarly affect IL-6 expression.
However, for IL-4 this was accompanied with a reduction of AP-1 and NF-IL6 binding activity whereas IL-10 only inhibited AP-1 binding activity.
Reversal of apoptosis by the leukaemia-associated E2A-HLF chimaeric transcription factor.
The E2A-HLF -LRB- for hepatic leukaemia factor -RRB- fusion gene, formed by action of the t -LRB- 17 ; 19 -RRB- -LRB- q22 ; p13 -RRB- chromosomal translocation, drives the leukaemic transformation of early B-cell precursors, but the mechanism of this activity remains unknown.
Moreover, when introduced into murine pro-B lymphocytes, the oncogenic E2A-HLF fusion protein reversed both interleukin-3-dependent and p53-mediated apoptosis.
oriP is essential for EBNA gene promoter activity in Epstein-Barr virus-immortalized lymphoblastoid cell lines.
During Epstein-Barr virus latent infection of B lymphocytes in vitro, six viral nuclear antigens -LRB- EBNAs -RRB- are expressed from one of two promoters, Cp or Wp, whose activities are mutually exclusive.
Upon infection, Wp is initially active, followed by a switch to Cp for the duration of latency.
In this study, the region upstream of Cp was analyzed for the presence of cis elements involved in regulating the activities of the EBNA gene promoters in established in vitro immortalized lymphoblastoid cell lines -LRB- LCLs -RRB-.
It was determined that oriP, the origin for episomal maintenance during latency, is essential for efficient transcription initiation from either Cp or Wp in LCLs, as well as in some Burkitt 's lymphoma cell lines.
Deletion of the EBNA2-dependent enhancer located upstream of Cp resulted in a ca. two - to fivefold reduction in Cp activity in the LCLs assayed.
More extensive deletion of sequences upstream of Cp, including the EBNA2-dependent enhancer, resulted in nearly complete loss of Cp activity.
This loss of activity was shown to correlate with deletion of two CCAAT boxes, a proximal CCAAT box located at bp -61 to -65 and a distal CCAAT box located at bp -253 to -257, upstream of Cp.
Site-directed mutagenesis of these cis elements demonstrated that Cp activity is highly dependent on the presence of a properly positioned CCAAT box, with the dependence on the distal CCAAT box apparent only when the proximal CCAAT box was deleted or mutated.
Deletion of the glucocorticoid response elements located at ca. bp -850 upstream of Cp did not result in a significant loss in activity.
In general, deletions which diminished Cp activity resulted in induction of Wp activity, consistent with suppression of Wp activity by transcriptional interference from Cp.
Inhibition of transcription factor Stat1 activity in mononuclear cell cultures and T cells by the cyclic AMP signaling pathway.
Activation of T cells results in a cascade of gene activation and subsequent proliferation and differentiation into effector phenotypes.
The regulation of transcription factors belonging to the signal transducer and activator of transcription -LRB- STAT -RRB- family was analyzed in PHA-activated mononuclear cells and in purified T cells activated by cross-linking cell surface CD3.
Cell activation resulted in a delayed induction of STAT DNA-binding activity, which was sustained for several days, was composed predominantly of Stat1 and Stat3, and was blocked by cycloheximide and actinomycin D..
Increased Stat1 and Stat3 mRNA and protein levels were detected, respectively 4 and 24 h after activation.
Stimulation of the cAMP signal transduction pathway, which skews cytokine production toward a Th2 pattern, resulted in the preferential suppression of Stat1 activity.
cAMP inhibited the induction of expression of IL-2 receptor components, but did not inhibit IL-4 receptor alpha-chain and CD69 expression or the induction of activator protein 1 transcription factors.
cAMP signaling inhibited Stat1 at several different levels, including suppression of DNA binding and down-regulation of Stat1 protein and mRNA levels.
Our results demonstrate the regulation of STAT activity by a signaling pathway that regulates the T cell functional phenotype and is distinct from the cytokine-activated Janus kinase-STAT signaling pathway.
Interaction of the human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 tax transactivator with transcription factor IIA.
The Tax protein of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 -LRB- HTLV-1 -RRB- is a 40-kDa transcriptional activator which is critical for HTLV-1 gene regulation and virus-induced cellular transformation.
Tax is localized to the DNA through its interaction with the site-specific activators cyclic AMP-responsive element-binding protein, NF-kappaB, and serum response factor.
On the basis of several independent assays, we now report a physical and functional interaction between Tax and the transcription factor, TFIIA.
First, Tax was found to interact with the 35-kDa -LRB- alpha -RRB- subunit of TFIIA in the yeast two-hybrid interaction system.
Importantly, two previously characterized mutants with point mutations in Tax, M32 -LRB- Y196A, K197S -RRB- and M41 -LRB- H287A, P288S -RRB-, which were shown to be defective in Tax-activated transcription were unable to interact with TFIIA in this assay.
Second, a glutathione-S-transferase -LRB- GST -RRB- affinity-binding assay showed that the interaction of holo-TFIIA with GST-Tax was 20-fold higher than that observed with either the GST-Tax M32 activation mutant or the GST control.
Third, a coimmunoprecipitation assay showed that in HTLV-1-infected human T lymphocytes, Tax and TFIIA were associated.
Finally, TFIIA facilitates Tax transactivation in vitro and in vivo.
In vitro transcription studies showed reduced levels of Tax-activated transcription in cell extracts depleted of TFIIA.
In addition, transfection of human T lymphocytes with TFIIA expression vectors enhanced Tax-activated transcription of an HTLV-1 long terminal repeat-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter construct.
-LSB- NGFI-B/nur77 family involved in T-cell apoptosis -RSB-.
NGFI-B/nur77 is a member of the steroid receptor superfamily.
NGFI-B/nur77 and its related genes constitute a family and the NGFI-B/nur77 family consists of three subtypes, named nur77 alpha, nur77 beta, nur77 gamma.
We cloned human nur77 beta cDNA, called TINUR.
NGFI-B/nur77 binds to the response element by monomer or heterodimer with retinoid X receptor -LRB- RXR -RRB-.
Transgenic expression of PML/RARalpha impairs myelopoiesis.
The translocation found in acute promyelocytic leukemia rearranges the promyelocytic leukemia gene -LRB- PML -RRB- on chromosome 15 with the retinoic acid receptor alpha -LRB- RARalpha -RRB- on chromosome 17.
This yields a fusion transcript, PML/RARalpha, a transcription factor with reported dominant negative functions in the absence of hormone.
Clinical remissions induced with all-trans retinoic acid -LRB- RA -RRB- treatment in acute promyelocytic leukemia are linked to PML/RARalpha expression in leukemic cells.
To evaluate the PML/RARalpha role in myelopoiesis, transgenic mice expressing PML/RARalpha were engineered.
A full-length PML/RARalpha cDNA driven by the CD11b promoter was expressed in transgenic mice.
Expression was confirmed in the bone marrow with a reverse transcription PCR assay.
Basal total white blood cell and granulocyte counts did not appreciably differ between PML/RARalpha transgenic and control mice.
Cell sorter analysis of CD11b + bone marrow cells revealed similar CD11b + populations in transgenic and control mice.
However, in vitro clonal growth assays performed on peripheral blood from transgenic versus control mice revealed a marked reduction of myeloid progenitors, especially in those responding to granulocyte / macrophage colony-stimulating factor.
Granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor and kit ligand cotreatment did not overcome this inhibition.
Impaired myelopoiesis in vivo was shown by stressing these mice with sublethal irradiation.
Following irradiation, PML/RARalpha transgenic mice, as compared with controls, more rapidly depressed peripheral white blood cell and granulocyte counts.
As expected, nearly all control mice -LRB- 94.4 % -RRB- survived irradiation, yet this irradiation was lethal to 45.8 % of PML/RARalpha transgenic mice.
Lethality was associated with more severe leukopenia in transgenic versus control mice.
Retinoic acid treatment of irradiated PML/RARalpha mice enhanced granulocyte recovery.
We now report that vaccination with a CTL epitope derived from the human adenovirus type 5 E1A-region -LRB- Ad5E1A234-243 -RRB-, which can serve as a target for tumor-eradicating CTL, enhances rather than inhibits the growth of Ad5E1A-expressing tumors.
This adverse effect of peptide vaccination was rapidly evoked, required low doses of peptide -LRB- 10 micrograms -RRB-, and was achieved by a mode of peptide delivery that induces protective T-cell-mediated immunity in other models.
In contrast to peptide vaccination, immunization with adenovirus, expressing Ad5E1A, induced Ad5E1A-specific immunity and prevented the outgrowth of Ad5E1A-expressing tumors.
These findings are important for the design of safe peptide-based vaccines against tumors, allogeneic organ transplants, and T-cell-mediated autoimmune diseases.
LYSP100-associated nuclear domains -LRB- LANDs -RRB- : description of a new class of subnuclear structures and their relationship to PML nuclear bodies.
The PML gene is fused to the retinoic acid receptor alpha -LRB- RAR alpha -RRB- gene in t -LRB- 15 ; 17 -RRB- acute promyelocytic leukemia -LRB- APL -RRB-, creating a PML-RAR alpha fusion oncoprotein.
The PML gene product has been localized to subnuclear dot-like structures variously termed PODs, ND10s, Kr bodies, or PML nuclear bodies -LRB- PML NBs -RRB-.
The present study describes the cloning of a lymphoid-restricted gene, LYSP100, that is homologous to another protein that localizes to PML NBs, SP100.
In addition to SP100 homology regions, one LYSP100 cDNA isoform contains a bromodomain and a PHD/TTC domain, which are present in a variety of transcriptional regulatory proteins.
By immunofluorescence, LYSP100 was localized to nuclear dots that were surprisingly largely nonoverlapping with PML NBs.
However, a minority of LYSP100 nuclear dots exactly colocalized with PML and SP100.
We term the LYSP100 structures `` LANDs, '' for LYSP100-associated nuclear domains.
Although LYSP100 is expressed only in lymphoid cells, LANDs could be visualized in HeLa cells by transfection of a LYSP100 cDNA.
Immunoelectron microscopy revealed LANDs to be globular, electron-dense structures morphologically distinct from the annular structures characteristic of PML NBs.
By double-immunogold labeling of PML and LYSP100, some LANDs were shown to contain both PML and LYSP100.
Thus, PML is localized to a second subnuclear domain that is morphologically and biochemically distinct from PML NBs.
Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor preferentially activates the 94-kD STAT5A and an 80-kD STAT5A isoform in human peripheral blood monocytes.
Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB- induces immediate effects in monocytes by activation of the Janus kinase -LRB- JAK2 -RRB- and STAT transcription factor -LRB- STAT5 -RRB- pathway.
Recent studies have identified homologues of STAT5, STAT5A, and STAT5B, as well as lower molecular weight variants of STAT5.
To define the activation of the STAT5 homologues and lower molecular weight variant in human monocytes and monocytes differentiated into macrophages by culture in macrophage-CSF -LRB- M-CSF -RRB-, we measured the GM-CSF induced tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT5A, STAT5B, and any lower molecular weight STAT5 isoforms.
Freshly isolated monocytes expressed 94-kD STAT5A, 92-kD STAT5B, and an 80-kD STAT5A molecule.
Whereas 94-kD STAT5A was clearly tyrosine phosphorylated and bound to the enhancer element, the gamma response region -LRB- GRR -RRB-, of the Fc gamma RI gene, substantially less tyrosine phosphorylated STAT5B bound to the immobilized GRR element.
Macrophages lost their ability to express the 80-kD STAT5A protein, but retained their ability to activate STAT5A.
STAT5A-STAT5A homodimers and STAT5A-STAT5B heterodimers formed in response to GM-CSF.
Therefore, activation of STAT5A predominates compared to STAT5B when assayed by direct immunoprecipitation and by evaluation of bound STATs to immobilized GRR.
CTL recognition of an altered peptide associated with asparagine bond rearrangement.
Implications for immunity and vaccine design.
The extent to which peptides containing chemically and post-translationally modified amino acid side chains are recognized by primed CTL has not been clearly defined.
We report on the CTL recognition of a MHC class I-restricted peptide containing a cyclized asparagine -LRB- succinimide -RRB- residue.
This modification of the asparagine side chain is a common intermediate structure during deamidation, isomerization, and bond rearrangements of amide-containing amino acids and also occurs as a side reaction in peptide synthesis.
The CTL specifically recognized the succinimide-containing peptide showing only weak cross-reactivity at high concentrations of the parent peptide containing unmodified asparagine.
Similarly, CTL raised against the parent peptide did not recognize the succinimide derivative of this peptide.
Abnormalities of p16, p15 and CDK4 genes in recurrent malignant astrocytomas.
Abnormalities in the p16, p15 and CDK4 genes that regulate transition through the G1 phase of the cell cycle have been implicated in the malignant progression of astrocytomas.
The results of the present study demonstrate that dysfunction of these genes also occurs during recurrence of glial tumors that were highly malignant at first presentation.
Analysis of 10 matched pairs of high grade malignant astrocytomas and their subsequent recurrences identified three distinct groups.
The primary and recurrent tumors in Group A did not show structural alterations in the p16, p15 or CDK4 genes, whereas homozygous codeletion of p16 and p15 was observed in both primary and recurrent tumors in Group B..
The primary tumors in Group C had a normal profile of p16, p15 and CDK4 at presentation.
Upon recurrence, however, the tumors sustained either deletion of p16 alone or codeletion of both p16 and p15 or amplification of CDK4.
Cooperation between core binding factor and adjacent promoter elements contributes to the tissue-specific expression of interleukin-3.
Tissue-specific expression of interleukin-3 -LRB- IL-3 -RRB- is mediated via cis-acting elements located within 315 base pairs of the transcription start.
This is achieved in part through the positive activities of the AP-1 and Elf-1 sites in the IL-3 promoter.
The contribution to T cell-specific expression by other promoter sites was assessed in a transient expression assay with IL-3 promoter constructs linked to a luciferase gene, focusing initially on the core binding factor -LRB- CBF -RRB- site, which is footprinted in vivo upon T cell activation.
Activity of the CBF site is shown to be critically dependent on the adjacent activator site Act-1.
Together the Act-1 and CBF sites form a functional unit -LRB- AC unit -RRB- with dual activity.
The AC unit is demonstrated to enhance basal activity of promoters both in fibroblasts and T cells.
This activity is further inducible in activated T cells, but not in fibroblasts.
In addition to the already identified NIP repressor site, evidence is presented for a second repressor region that restricts promoter activity in fibroblasts.
Finally, a novel positive regulatory element has been mapped in the IL-3 promoter between nucleotide -180 and -210 that leads to increased expression in T cells.
Together these results demonstrate that T cell expression of IL-3 is not specified by the activity of a single tissue-specific element, but instead involves multiple interacting elements that provide both specific positive regulation in T cells and specific negative regulation in fibroblasts.
A 3' -- > 5' XPB helicase defect in repair/transcription factor TFIIH of xeroderma pigmentosum group B affects both DNA repair and transcription.
XPB is a subunit of the basal transcription factor TFIIH, which is also involved in nucleotide excision repair -LRB- NER -RRB- and potentially in cell cycle regulation.
A frameshift mutation in the 3' - end of the XPB gene is responsible for a concurrence of two disorders : xeroderma pigmentosum -LRB- XP -RRB- and Cockayne 's syndrome -LRB- CS -RRB-.
We have isolated TFIIH from cells derived from a patient -LRB- XP11BE -RRB- who carries this frameshift mutation -LRB- TFIIHmut -RRB- and from the mother of this patient -LRB- TFIIHwt -RRB- to determine the biochemical consequences of the mutation.
Although identical in composition and stoichiometry to TFIIHwt, TFIIHmut shows a reduced 3' -- > 5' XPB helicase activity.
A decrease in helicase and DNA-dependent ATPase activities was also observed with the mutated recombinant XPB protein.
The XPB mutation causes a severe NER defect.
In addition, we provide evidence for a decrease in basal transcription activity in vitro.
Thus, this work presents the first detailed analysis of a naturally occurring mutation in a basal transcription factor and supports the concept that the combined XP/CS clinical entity is actually the result of a combined transcription/repair deficiency.
Signals leading to the activation of NF-kappa B transcription factor are stronger in neonatal than adult T lymphocytes.
The molecular background of the defects in the immune reactivity of human neonates has not been fully elucidated.
As the NF-kappa B transcription factor has a central role in the control of transcription of several genes involved in immune and inflammatory responses, the authors have analysed the activation of NF-kappa B in human umbilical cord T lymphocytes.
The activity was tested by quantitating the nuclear proteins binding to an oligonucleotide containing the consensus kappa B binding sequence -LRB- electrophoretic mobility shift assay -RRB-.
The data obtained demonstrate that phorbol dibutyrate/calcium ionophore A23187 -LRB- PDBu/iono -RRB- combination induced a clearly higher nuclear translocation of NF-kappa B in neonatal than adult T cells.
This higher NF-kappa B activity was restricted to the CD4 + T-cell subset.
Analysis of the nuclear extracts with antibodies directed against the major components of NF-kappa B the p50 and RelA -LRB- p65 -RRB- proteins, indicated that the composition of NF-kappa B was similar in neonatal and adult cells.
Characterization of Grb2-binding proteins in human platelets activated by Fc gamma RIIA cross-linking.
Glutathione-S-transferase -LRB- GST -RRB- - Grb2 fusion proteins have been used to identify the potential role of Grb2-binding proteins in platelet activation by the platelet low-affinity IgG receptor, Fc gamma RIIA.
Two tyrosine phosphoproteins of 38 and 63 kD bind to the SH2 domain of Grb2 following Fc gamma RIIA stimulation of platelets.
Both are located in the particulate fraction following platelet activation and are also able to bind to a GST-construct containing the SH2 and SH3 domains of phospholipase C gamma 1.
p38 also forms a complex with the tyrosine kinase csk in stimulated cells and is a substrate for the kinase.
The SH3 domains of Grb2 form a stable complex with SOS1 and two proteins of 75 kD and 120 kD, which undergo tyrosine phosphorylation in Fc gamma RIIA stimulated cells.
The 75-kD protein is recognized by antibodies to SLP-76, which has recently been isolated from T cells and sequenced.
Tyrosine phosphorylation of p38 and p63 is also observed in platelets stimulated by the tyrosine kinase-linked receptor agonist collagen and by the G protein-coupled receptor agonist thrombin, although phosphorylation of SLP-76 is only observed in collagen-stimulated platelets.
Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen 2 and latent membrane protein independently transactivate p53 through induction of NF-kappaB activity.
B-cell immortalization by Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- is dependent on permanent control of the cellular processes which normally regulate cell division and apoptosis, functions possessed by p53 in a number of normal cell types.
In studies initiated to evaluate relationships between EBV latent genes and p53, p53 levels were found to increase approximately 10-fold 4 to 5 days after EBV infection of purified resting human B cells ;.
the induced p53 was transcriptionally active.
Latent membrane protein 1 and, to a lesser extent, EBV nuclear antigen 2 mediated the increase in p53 levels via activation of the NF-kappaB transcription factor.
Differential utilization of Janus kinase-signal transducer activator of transcription signaling pathways in the stimulation of human natural killer cells by IL-2, IL-12, and IFN-alpha.
IL-2 -, IL-12 -, and IFN-alpha-mediated signaling pathways were analyzed in primary NK cells and in the NK3 .3 cell line.
Gel mobility shift and immunoprecipitation analyses revealed that in addition to activating STAT3 -LRB- signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 -RRB- and STAT5, IL-2 induced tyrosine and serine phosphorylation of STAT1 alpha, which formed IFN-gamma-activated sequence-binding complexes by itself and with STAT3.
Although IL-2 and IFN-alpha activated STAT1 alpha and STAT5, IL-2 predominantly activated STAT5, while IFN-alpha predominantly activated STAT1 alpha.
IL-2 induced less STAT1 alpha activation and IFN-alpha induced greater STAT5 activation in NK3 .3 cells compared with preactivated primary NK cells.
In NK3 .3 cells, IL-2 induced comparable formation of c-fos promoter sis-inducible element IFN-gamma-activated sequence-binding complexes containing STAT3 alone with complexes containing STAT3 and STAT1 alpha, while in preactivated primary NK cells, it preferentially induced complexes containing STAT3 and STAT1 alpha.
Thus, signaling in NK3 .3 cells is not always identical with that in primary NK cells.
In contrast to IL-2 and IFN-alpha, IL-12 induced strong tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT4 and variable weak phosphorylation of STAT3.
However, supershift analyses using the c-fos promoter sis-inducible element probe showed that IL-12 activated STAT4, STAT1 alpha, and STAT3, and induced complexes containing STAT4 only, STAT4 with STAT1 alpha, STAT3 with STAT1 alpha, or STAT1 alpha only in preactivated primary NK cells.
STAT1 alpha activation by IL-12 correlated with increased phosphorylation of serine, but not tyrosine.
Finally, IL-2 induced tyrosine phosphorylation of JAK1 and JAK3, while IL-12 induced phosphorylation of JAK2 and TYK2 in both preactivated primary NK and NK3 .3 cells.
Sublethal levels of oxidative stress stimulate transcriptional activation of c-jun and suppress IL-2 promoter activation in Jurkat T cells.
Sublethal levels of oxidative stress are well known to alter T cell functional responses, but the underlying mechanisms are unknown.
The current study examined the effects of oxidative stress on transcriptional activities mediated by c-Fos/c-Jun AP-1 and the nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NF-AT -RRB-.
The present results show that Jurkat T cells acutely exposed to micromolar concentrations of H2O2 exhibit substantial increases in AP-1 binding activity and the expression of c-jun but not c-fos mRNA.
The preferential induction of c-jun by H2O2 did not represent redox stabilization of mRNA transcripts, and oxidative signals closely resembled PHA/PMA stimulation by effectively transactivating the full length c-jun promoter via the proximal jun1 tumor promoter-responsive element -LRB- TRE -RRB- - like promoter element.
Similarly, the complexes binding the consensus AP-1 TRE and jun TRE-like motifs in cells exposed to oxidative signals or PHA/PMA were indistinguishable, being composed of c-Fos, c-Jun, and JunD.
However, PHA/PMA but not oxidative signals induced the coordinate activation of reporter constructs containing the AP-1-TRE, NF-AT, and IL-2 promoter regions along with IL-2 mRNA expression.
Furthermore, sublethal levels of H2O2 actively suppressed the transcriptional activation of NF-AT and IL-2 reporters as well as the expression of IL-2 mRNA in cells stimulated with PHA/PMA.
Gel shift analysis revealed that oxidative suppression of NF-AT represented inhibition in the early generation of NFAT complexes rather than the binding of preformed NF-AT complexes.
Glucocorticoids and interferon-alpha in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
Some patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome -LRB- AIDS -RRB- develop glucocorticoid resistance characterized by low receptor affinity -LRB- Kd -RRB- for glucocorticoids in mononuclear, cells and high values of ACTH and cortisol.
Therefore, we examined glucocorticoid receptor characteristics on monocytes by -LSB- 3H -RSB- dexamethasone binding and measured IFN alpha, cortisol, and ACTH in AIDS patients with -LRB- AIDS-GR -RRB- or without glucocorticoid resistance -LRB- AIDS-C -RRB- and controls -LRB- C -RRB-.
Monocytes of AIDS-GR patients had a receptor Kd of 10.5 + / - 4.2 nmol/L that was higher than that in the AIDS-C group -LRB- 2.9 + / - 0.8 nmol/L -RRB- and normal subjects -LRB- 2.0 + / - 0.8 nmol/L ; P < 0.01 -RRB-.
IFN alpha levels were increased in the AIDS-GR group -LRB- 17 + / - 6 vs..
4 + / - 1 U/mL in the AIDS-C group and 2 + / - 0.5 U/mL in the C group ; P < 0.01 -RRB-.
Correlations were found between plasma IFN alpha and receptor Kd on monocytes of AIDS-GR -LRB- r = 0.77 -RRB- and between IFN alpha and plasma cortisol in the same group -LRB- r = 0.74 -RRB-.
The poly -LRB- I -RRB- - poly -LRB- C -RRB- - induced IFN alpha production by monocytes was inhibited by glucocorticoids in the C and AIDS-C groups -LRB- approximately 80 % inhibition in both groups -RRB- ;.
the effect was reversed by the receptor antagonist RU-38486.
By contrast, glucocorticoids failed to inhibit IFNalpha production from AIDS-GR monocytes -LRB- approximately 20 % inhibition -RRB-.
Mechanisms of transactivation by nuclear factor of activated T cells-1.
Nuclear factor of activated T cells-family proteins -LRB- NFAT1/NFATp, NFATc, NFAT3, and NFAT4/NFATx/NFATc3 -RRB- play a key role in the transcription of cytokine genes and other genes during the immune response.
We have defined the mechanisms of transactivation by NFAT1.
NFAT1 possesses two transactivation domains whose sequences are not conserved in the other NFAT-family proteins, and a conserved DNA-binding domain that mediates the recruitment of cooperating nuclear transcription factors even when it is expressed in the absence of other regions of the protein.
The activity of the NH2-terminal transactivation domain is modulated by an adjacent regulatory region that contains several conserved sequence motifs represented only in the NFAT family.
Our results emphasize the multiple levels at which NFAT-dependent transactivation is regulated, and predict significant differences in the architecture of cooperative transcription complexes containing different NFAT-family proteins.
The Ets protein Spi-B is expressed exclusively in B cells and T cells during development.
Spi-B and PU .1 are hematopoietic-specific transcription factors that constitute a subfamily of the Ets family of DNA-binding proteins.
Here we show that contrary to previous reports, PU .1 and Spi-B have very different expression patterns.
PU .1 is expressed at high levels in B cells, mast cells, megakaryocytes, macrophages, neutrophils, and immature erythroid cells and at lower levels in mature erythrocytes.
PU .1 is completely absent from peripheral T cells and most T cell lines based on sensitive RT-PCR assays.
In contrast, Spi-B is expressed exclusively in lymphoid cells and can be detected in early fetal thymus and spleen.
In situ hybridizations of adult murine tissues demonstrate Spi-B mRNA in the medulla of the thymus, the white pulp of the spleen, and the germinal centers of lymph nodes.
Spi-B expression is very abundant in B cells and both Spi-B mRNA and protein are detected in some T cells.
Finally, both PU .1 and Spi-B function as transcriptional activators of the immunoglobulin light-chain enhancer E lambda 2.4 when coexpressed with Pip -LRB- PU.1-interaction partner -RRB- in NIH-3T3 cells.
Precise alignment of sites required for mu enhancer activation in B cells.
The lymphocyte-specific immunoglobulin mu heavy-chain gene intronic enhancer is regulated by multiple nuclear factors.
The previously defined minimal enhancer containing the muA, muE3, and muB sites is transactivated by a combination of the ETS-domain proteins PU .1 and Ets-1 in nonlymphoid cells.
We tested the necessity for appropriate spatial alignment of these elements by using mutated enhancers with altered spacings.
A 4 - or 10-bp insertion between muE3 and muB inactivated the mu enhancer in S194 plasma cells but did not affect in vitro binding of Ets-1, PU .1, or the muE3-binding protein TFE3, alone or in pairwise combinations.
Circular permutation and phasing analyses demonstrated that PU .1 binding but not TFE3 or Ets-1 bends mu enhancer DNA toward the major groove.
C/EBP activators are required for HIV-1 replication and proviral induction in monocytic cell lines.
Previous work has shown that C/EBP sites and C/EBP transcriptional activators are necessary for HIV-1 LTR activity in monocytes/macrophages.
We have investigated the role that C/EBP proteins play in induction and replication of HIV-1.
Ectopic expression of the dominant negative C/EBP protein LIP inhibited HIV-1 mRNA and virus production in activated U1 cells, demonstrating that C/EBP proteins are required for provirus induction.
U1 lines overexpressing C/EBP activator NF-IL-6 produced more viral mRNA and virus particles following cellular activation than control lines, demonstrating that C/EBP proteins are limiting for virus transcription.
These data identify C/EBP proteins as regulators of HIV-1 expression in monocytes/macrophages.
Retinoic acid activates interferon regulatory factor-1 gene expression in myeloid cells.
All-trans-retinoic acid -LRB- ATRA -RRB- is the drug of choice in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia -LRB- APL -RRB-.
ATRA induces both in vitro and in vivo differentiation of APL cells into mature granulocytes.
However, the molecular mechanisms involved in ATRA-dependent growth inhibition and cellular differentiation are not presently understood.
The NB4 cell line, which is derived from the bone marrow of a patient with APL during relapse, can be used as a model system to study the growth and differentiation of APL cells.
Because interferon -LRB- IFN -RRB- regulatory factors -LRB- IRF-1 and IRF-2 -RRB- and other IFN-inducible gene products regulate cell growth, we analyzed the effects of ATRA on the expression of these genes.
We show that ATRA directly activates IRF-1 gene expression, followed by activation of IRF-2 and 2' -5' oligoadenylate synthetase -LRB- OAS -RRB- gene expression with slower kinetics.
In addition to NB4 cells, ATRA also activated IRF-1 gene expression in HL-60, U937, and THP-1 cells, which all respond to ATRA by growth inhibition.
A more than additive increase in IRF-1 gene expression was seen with ATRA and IFN-gamma in NB4 cells.
The c-Jun delta-domain inhibits neuroendocrine promoter activity in a DNA sequence - and pituitary-specific manner.
The transcription and transformation activity of c-Jun is governed by a 27-amino acid regulatory motif, labeled the delta-domain, which is deleted in v-Jun.
We have previously shown that c-Jun is a potent inhibitor of the rat prolactin -LRB- rPRL -RRB- promoter activity induced by either oncogenic Ras or phorbol esters.
Here, we have characterized the structural and cell-specific requirements for this c-Jun inhibitory response, and we show that this c-Jun inhibitory response mapped to the rPRL footprint II repressor site, was pituitary-specific and required the c-Jun delta-domain.
Moreover, alteration of any one of these features -LRB- e.g., cis-element, trans-factor, or cell-specific background -RRB- switched c-Jun to a transcriptional activator of the rPRL promoter.
In HeLa nonpituitary cells, c-Jun alone activated the rPRL promoter via the most proximal GHF-1 / Pit-1 binding site, footprint I, and synergized with GHF-1.
Finally, recombinant GHF-1 interacted directly with c-Jun but not c-Fos proteins.
BCL-6, a POZ/zinc-finger protein, is a sequence-specific transcriptional repressor.
Approximately 40 % of diffuse large cell lymphoma are associated with chromosomal translocations that deregulate the expression of the BCL6 gene by juxtaposing heterologous promoters to the BCL-6 coding domain.
By using a DNA sequence selected for its ability to bind recombinant BCL-6 in vitro, we show here that BCL-6 is present in DNA-binding complexes in nuclear extracts from various B-cell lines.
In transient transfectin experiments, BCL6 can repress transcription from promoters linked to its DNA target sequence and this activity is dependent upon specific DNA-binding and the presence of an intact N-terminal half of the protein.
We demonstrate that this part of the BCL6 molecule contains an autonomous transrepressor domain and that two noncontiguous regions, including the POZ motif, mediate maximum transrepressive activity.
Constitutive expression of specific interferon isotypes in peripheral blood leukocytes from normal individuals and in promonocytic U937 cells.
Constitutive expression of IFN-alpha5 and IFN-beta was detected in different lymphoid cells including peripheral blood mononuclear cells from normal individuals following amplification of IFN mRNA by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and direct sequencing of the amplified product.
The activated form of the interferon-induced transcription factor complex ISGF3 was also detected in nuclear extracts from uninduced cells.
This endogenous IFN was also shown to play a role in maintaining the basal level of expression of the major histocompatibility class I genes in lymphoid cells.
Induction of bcl-2 expression by phosphorylated CREB proteins during B-cell activation and rescue from apoptosis.
Engagement of surface immunoglobulin on mature B cells leads to rescue from apoptosis and to proliferation.
Levels of bcl-2 mRNA and protein increase with cross-linking of surface immunoglobulin.
We have located the major positive regulatory region for control of bcl-2 expression in B cells in the 5' - flanking region.
The positive region can be divided into an upstream and a downstream regulatory region.
The downstream regulatory region contains a cyclic AMP-responsive element -LRB- CRE -RRB-.
We show by antibody supershift experiments and UV cross-linking followed by denaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis that both CREB and ATF family members bind to this region in vitro.
Mutations of the CRE site that result in loss of CREB binding also lead to loss of functional activity of the bcl-2 promoter in transient-transfection assays.
Treatment of the mature B-cell line BAL-17 with either anti-immunoglobulin M or phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate leads to an increase in bcl-2 expression that is mediated by the CRE site.
Treatment of the more immature B-cell line, Ramos, with phorbol esters rescues the cells from calcium-dependent apoptosis.
bcl-2 expression is increased following phorbol ester treatment, and the increased expression is dependent on the CRE site.
These stimuli result in phosphorylation of CREB at serine 133.
The phosphorylation of CREB that results in activation is mediated by protein kinase C rather than by protein kinase A..
Interleukin-6 promotes multiple myeloma cell growth via phosphorylation of retinoblastoma protein.
Interleukin-6 -LRB- IL-6 -RRB- mediates autocrine and paracrine growth of multiple myeloma -LRB- MM -RRB- cells and inhibits tumor cell apoptosis.
Abnormalities of retinoblastoma protein -LRB- pRB -RRB- and mutations of RB gene have been reported in up to 70 % of MM patients and 80 % of MM-derived cell lines.
Because dephosphorylated -LRB- activated -RRB- pRB blocks transition from G1 to S phase of the cell cycle whereas phosphorylated -LRB- inactivated -RRB- pRB releases this growth arrest, we characterized the role of pRB in IL-6-mediated MM cell growth.
Both phosphorylated and dephosphorylated pRB were expressed in all serum-starved MM patient cells and MM-derived cell lines, but pRB was predominantly in its phosphorylated form.
In MM cells that proliferated in response to IL-6, exogenous IL-6 downregulated dephosphorylated pRB and decreased dephosphorylated pRB-E2F complexes.
Importantly, culture of MM cells with RB antisense, but not RB sense, oligonucleotide -LRB- ODN -RRB- triggered IL-6 secretion and proliferation in MM cells ;.
however, proliferation was only partially inhibited by neutralizing anti-IL-6 monoclonal antibody -LRB- MoAb -RRB-.
In contrast to MM cells, normal splenic B cells express dephosphorylated pRB.
Although CD40 ligand -LRB- CD40L -RRB- triggers a shift from dephosphorylated to phosphorylated pRB and proliferation of B cells, the addition of exogenous IL-6 to CD40L-treated B cells does not alter either pRB or proliferation, as observed in MM cells.
Analysis of the ligand-binding domain of human retinoic acid receptor alpha by site-directed mutagenesis.
Three subtypes of retinoic acid receptors -LRB- RAR -RRB-, termed RAR alpha, RAR beta, and RAR gamma, have been described.
They are composed of different structural domains, including distinct domains for DNA and ligand binding.
RARs specifically bind all-trans-retinoic acid -LRB- RA -RRB-, 9-cis-RA, and retinoid analogs.
In this study, we examined the functional role of cysteine and arginine residues in the ligand-binding domain of hRAR alpha -LRB- hRAR alpha-LBD, amino acids 154 to 462 -RRB-.
All conserved cysteine and arginine residues in this domain were mutated by site-directed mutagenesis, and the mutant proteins were characterized by blocking reactions, ligand-binding experiments, transactivation assays, and protease mapping.
Changes of any cysteine residue of the hRAR alpha-LBD had no significant influence on the binding of all-trans RA or 9-cis RA.
Interestingly, residue C-235 is specifically important in antagonist binding.
With respect to arginine residues, only the two single mutations of R-276 and R-394 to alanine showed a dramatic decrease of agonist and antagonist binding whereas the R272A mutation showed only a slight effect.
For all other arginine mutations, no differences in affinity were detectable.
The two mutations R217A and R294A caused an increased binding efficiency for antagonists but no change in agonist binding.
Cloning and characterization of the beta subunit of human proximal sequence element-binding transcription factor and its involvement in transcription of small nuclear RNA genes by RNA polymerases II and III.
The proximal sequence element -LRB- PSE -RRB- - binding transcription factor -LRB- PTF -RRB-, which binds the PSE of both RNA polymerase II - and RNA polymerase III-transcribed mammalian small nuclear RNA -LRB- snRNA -RRB- genes, is essential for their transcription.
We previously reported the purification of human PTF, a complex of four subunits, and the molecular cloning and characterization of PTF gamma and delta subunits.
Here we describe the isolation and expression of a cDNA encoding PTF beta, as well as functional studies using anti-PTF beta antibodies.
Native PTF beta, in either protein fractions or a PTF-Oct-1-DNA complex, can be recognized by polyclonal antibodies raised against recombinant PTF beta.
Immunodepletion studies show that PTF beta is required for transcription of both classes of snRNA genes in vitro.
In addition, immunoprecipitation analyses demonstrate that substantial and similar molar amounts of TATA-binding protein -LRB- TBP -RRB- and TFIIIB90 can weakly associate with PTF at low salt conditions, but this association is dramatically reduced at high salt concentrations.
Along with our previous demonstration of both physical interactions between PTF gamma/PTF delta and TBP and the involvement of TFIIIB90 in the transcription of class III snRNA genes, these results are consistent with the notion that a TBP-containing complex related to TFIIIB is required for the transcription of class III snRNA genes, and acts through weak interaction with the four-subunit PTF.
E3, a hematopoietic-specific transcript directly regulated by the retinoic acid receptor alpha.
Retinoic acid -LRB- RA -RRB- - induced maturation mediated by the retinoic acid receptor alpha -LRB- RAR alpha -RRB- has been implicated in myeloid development.
We have used differential hybridization analysis of a cDNA library constructed from the murine RA-inducible MPRO promyelocyte cell line to identify immediate-early genes induced by RA during granulocytic differentiation.
E3, one of nine sequences identified, was upregulated in an immediate-early manner, with transcript levels peaking after 60 minutes exposure to RA.
E3 transcripts were RA-inducible in HL60 cells, but not in an RA-resistant subclone, HL60R, that harbors a mutated RAR alpha gene.
However, when HL60R cells were transduced with a functional copy of the RAR alpha gene, RA induced a 10-fold increase in E3 mRNA levels.
The murine E3 promoter harbors a single bipartite retinoic acid response element which in transient transfection assays conferred RA sensitivity.
Interstitial deletion constitutes the major mechanism for loss of heterozygosity on chromosome 20q in polycythemia vera.
An acquired deletion of the long arm of chromosome 20 is a recurrent abnormality in myeloproliferative disorders, particularly polycythemia vera and myelodysplastic syndromes.
We have recently performed a detailed molecular analysis of 20q deletions in peripheral blood -LRB- PB -RRB- granulocytes and defined a commonly deleted region of 16 to 21 centimorgan -LRB- cM -RRB-.
To further reduce the size of the common deleted region we have searched for small deletions or mitotic recombination events, neither of which would be detected by conventional cytogenetics.
We have studied 48 patients with polycythemia vera and four patients with idiopathic myelofibrosis.
In each case, cytogenetic analysis had either failed or had shown no abnormalities of chromosome 20.
Seventeen microsatellite markers that span the common deleted region were used to search for loss of heterozygosity in granulocyte DNA.
No instance of microsatellite instability was observed in a total of 880 comparisons of granulocyte and T-cell DNA.
Granulocyte DNA from four patients exhibited allele loss on 20q.
In each case the allele loss was caused by an interstitial deletion because heterozygosity at distal markers was retained and because quantitative Southern blotting demonstrated hemizygosity.
Therefore, the human androgen receptor assay -LRB- HUMARA -RRB- was used to determine granulocyte clonality.
In 21 of 27 informative female patients the majority of the granulocytes were clonally derived.
These results show that, in the vast majority of patients presented here, the failure to detect loss of heterozygosity can not be attributed to the presence of normal polyclonal granulocytes.
Our results therefore show that allele loss on chromosome 20q in polycythemia vera does not commonly involve mitotic recombination or chromosome loss and that microsatellite instability is a rare event in this disorder.
JNK -LRB- c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase -RRB- is a target for antioxidants in T lymphocytes.
AP-1 has been shown to behave as a redox-sensitive transcription factor that can be activated by both oxidant and antioxidant stimuli.
However, the mechanisms involved in the activation of AP-1 by antioxidants are largely unknown.
In this study we show that the structurally unrelated antioxidant agents pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate -LRB- PDTC -RRB-, butylated hydroxyanisole, and Nacetylcysteine activated JNK -LRB- c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase -RRB- in Jurkat T cells.
This activation differed substantially from that mediated by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- and Ca2 + ionophore or produced by costimulation with antibodies against the T cell receptor-CD3 complex and to CD28.
The activation of JNK by classical T cell stimuli was transient, whereas that mediated by PDTC and butylated hydroxyanisole -LRB- but not N-acetylcysteine -RRB- was sustained.
The kinetics of JNK activation correlated with the expression of c-jun which was transient after stimulation with PMA plus ionophore and prolonged in response to PDTC, which also transiently induced c-fos.
In addition, JNK activation by PMA plus ionophore was sensitive to inhibitors of signaling pathways involving Ca2 +, protein kinase C, and tyrosine phosphorylation, which failed to inhibit the activation mediated by PDTC.
However, the combined treatment with PDTC and PMA, two agents that synergize on AP-1 activation, resulted in the persistent phosphorylation of ERK-2.
In conclusion, our results identify JNK as a target of antioxidant agents which can be regulated differentially under oxidant and antioxidant conditions.
Cytomegalovirus modulates interleukin-6 gene expression.
Complications after lung transplantation include the development of rejection and an increased incidence of infection, particularly with cytomegalovirus -LRB- CMV -RRB-.
We demonstrated that CMV infection increased both IL-6 protein and mRNA in peripheral blood mononuclear cells.
We also demonstrated that the CMV immediate early 1 gene product increased expression of the IL-6 promoter.
This effect of the CMV immediate early 1 gene product was dependent upon the presence of specific transcription factor binding sites in the IL-6 promoter.
Regulation of GM-CSF gene transcription by core-binding factor.
GM-CSF gene activation in T cells is known to involve the transcription factors nuclear factor-kappa B, AP-1, NFAT, and Sp1.
Here we demonstrate that the human GM-CSF promoter and enhancer also encompass binding sites for core-binding factor -LRB- CBF -RRB-.
Significantly, the CBF sites are in each case contained within the minimum essential core regions required for inducible activation of transcription.
Furthermore, these core regions of the enhancer and promoter each encompass closely linked binding sites for CBF, AP-1, and NFATp.
The GM-CSF promoter CBF site TGTGGTCA is located 51 bp upstream of the transcription start site and also overlaps a YY-1 binding site.
A 2-bp mutation within the CBF site resulted in a 2-3-fold decrease in the activities of both a 69-bp proximal promoter fragment and a 627-bp full-length promoter fragment.
Stepwise deletions into the proximal promoter also revealed that the CBF site, but not the YY-1 site, was required for efficient induction of transcriptional activation.
The AML1 and CBF beta genes that encode CBF each have the ability to influence cell growth and differentiation and have been implicated as proto-oncogenes in acute myeloid leukemia.
This study adds GM-CSF to a growing list of cytokines and receptors that are regulated by CBF and which control the growth, differentiation, and activation of hemopoietic cells.
Tyloxapol inhibits NF-kappa B and cytokine release, scavenges HOCI, and reduces viscosity of cystic fibrosis sputum.
Cystic fibrosis -LRB- CF -RRB- patients develop progressive cytokine-mediated inflammatory lung disease, with abundant production of thick, tenacious, protease - and oxidant-rich purulent airway secretions that are difficult to clear even with physiotherapy.
In the search for a potential treatment, we have tested tyloxapol, an alkylaryl polyether alcohol polymer detergent previously used as a mucolytic agent in adult chronic bronchitis.
Tyloxapol inhibits activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NK-kappa B -RRB-, reduces resting secretion of the cytokine interleukin-8 -LRB- IL-8 -RRB- in cultured human monocytes, and inhibits lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- - stimulated release of tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB-, IL-1 beta, IL-6, IL-8, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB-, and the eiconsanoids thromboxane A2 and leukotriene B4 -LRB- LTB4 -RRB-.
We have previously shown that tyloxapol is a potent antioxidant for hydroxyl radicals -LRB- OH -RRB-.
Tyloxapol -LRB- 0.05 to 0.1 % wt/vol -RRB- effectively scavenges the oxidant hypochlorous acid -LRB- HOCl ; 1 to 7.5 mM -RRB- in vitro, and protects from HOCl-mediated lung injury in rats.
Tyloxapol also reduces the viscosity of CF sputum -LRB- from 463 + / - 133 to 128 + / - 52 centipoise -RRB-.
Multifactor cis-dominant negative regulation of IL-2 gene expression in anergized T cells.
The molecular mechanism underlying IL-2 transcriptional blockade in anergic T cell clones is not fully understood.
This construct was only slightly reduced -LRB- 1.3-fold -RRB- in its expression when stimulated under anergic conditions, while a whole mouse IL-2 enhancer construct showed a reduction of 4.3-fold.
Addition of the -176 to -96 sequence to the 4X NF-AT-Oct construct did not impart the ability to be affected by anergy, but addition of the -236 to -96 sequence did, demonstrating that anergy is an active inhibitory process and that more than the presence of the -150 AP-1 binding site -LRB- -152 to -147 -RRB- is required to mediate the effect.
The simplest model to explain these results is that anergy is mediated by a complex of multiple transcription factors that exert a cis-acting dominant negative regulatory effect on the trans-activation of the IL-2 gene.
Characterization of the human myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen gene promoter.
MNDA -LRB- myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen -RRB- is an interferon alpha regulated nuclear protein expressed only in cells of the human myelomonocytic lineage.
To identify mechanisms responsible for this lineage-specific and interferon-regulated expression, the 5' flanking sequence of the gene has been characterized.
Two interferon-stimulated response elements -LRB- ISRE -RRB- flank a multiple transcription start site region identifying MNDA as a TATA-less interferon-regulated gene.
Other DNA elements present include a cluster of Myb sites, several Ets, an Ets related PU .1 site and an Sp1 site located within 600 bp of the transcription start sites.
The 5' flanking sequence has promoter activity which is elevated by interferon alpha.
Requirements for induction of vitamin D-mediated gene regulation in normal human B lymphocytes.
Mature human lymphocytes are unique targets of 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 -LRB- 1 alpha ,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 -RRB- in that vitamin D receptors -LRB- VDR -RRB- are not constitutively expressed, and specific cellular activation signals are required for both the up-regulation of VDR and establishment of reactivity to the lipophilic ligand.
Treatment of B lymphocytes with the cytokine IL-4 -LRB- IL-4 -RRB-, in the absence of prior activation, induces a weak up-regulation of VDR expression but fails to generate vitamin D-responsive element -LRB- VDRE -RRB- - reactive nuclear protein complexes or to initiate the genomic transcription of 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 24-hydroxylase.
Stimulation of B lymphocytes by either ligation of CD40 Ag or cross-linking the Ig receptor is also insufficient to render B lymphocytes responsive to 1 alpha ,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3.
Furthermore, biologic functions are modulated, in that the hormone inhibits proliferation in a subset of the activated B cells.
Cell-type-specific regulation of the human tumor necrosis factor alpha gene in B cells and T cells by NFATp and ATF-2 / JUN..
The human tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- gene is one of the earliest genes transcribed after the stimulation of a B cell through its antigen receptor or via the CD-40 pathway.
Furthermore, in T cells, two molecules of NFATp bind to the TNF-alpha promoter element kappa 3 in association with ATF-2 and Jun proteins bound to an immediately adjacent cyclic AMP response element -LRB- CRE -RRB- site.
Here, using the murine B-cell lymphoma cell line A20, we show that the TNF-alpha gene is regulated in a cell-type-specific manner.
In A20 B cells, the TNF-alpha gene is not regulated by NFATp bound to the kappa 3 element.
Instead, ATF-2 and Jun proteins bind to the composite kappa 3/CRE site and NFATp binds to a newly identified second NFAT site centered at -76 nucleotides relative to the TNF-alpha transcription start site.
This new site plays a critical role in the calcium-mediated, cyclosporin A-sensitive induction of TNF-alpha in both A20 B cells and Ar-5 cells.
Consistent with these results, quantitative DNase footprinting of the TNF-alpha promoter using increasing amounts of recombinant NFATp demonstrated that the -76 site binds to NFATp with a higher affinity than the kappa 3 site.
Two other previously unrecognized NFATp-binding sites in the proximal TNF-alpha promoter were also identified by this analysis.
Thus, through the differential use of the same promoter element, the composite kappa 3/CRE site, the TNF-alpha gene is regulated in a cell-type-specific manner in response to the same extracellular signal.
Abnormality of Oct-1 DNA binding in T cells from Sjogren 's syndrome patients.
Primary Sjogren 's syndrome -LRB- SS -RRB- is an autoimmune rheumatic disease characterized by T cell hypoactivity.
To understand the diminished T cell response to activation signals, we measured nucleoprotein DNA-binding activities regulating gene expression during T cell activation using the electrophoretic mobility shift assay.
Peripheral blood lymphocytes from 9/19 SS patients were found to be defective in their ability to bind an october sequence -LRB- Oct-1 -RRB-.
This Oct-1-binding phenotype remained stable in culture for up to 3 days prior to activation.
This abnormality was not seen in resting T cells nor T cells from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis -LRB- RA -RRB-, or SS accompanied by RA.
The SS Oct-1 DNA-binding abnormality correlated significantly with an inability of cells to exit the Gzero/G1 cell cycle phase when stimulated in vitro.
Moreover, defective DNA binding was corrected by treatment with acid phosphatase.
Severe combined immunodeficiency due to defective binding of the nuclear factor of activated T cells in T lymphocytes of two male siblings.
Peripheral blood lymphocytes -LRB- PBL -RRB- and alloreactive T cell lines of two male infants born to consanguinous parents and presenting with severe combined immunodeficiency -LRB- SCID -RRB- showed a pronounced deficiency in T cell activation.
Although phenotypically normal, the proliferative response of the childrens' T cells was strongly reduced but could be improved by the addition of interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB-.
Furthermore both childrens' T cells were unable to produce the cytokines IL-2, interferon-gamma -LRB- IFN-gamma -RRB-, IL-4 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB-.
This multiple cytokine production deficiency could not be restored by IL-2 or co-stimulatory signals provided by antigen-presenting cells -LRB- APC -RRB-.
Moreover, mRNA for IL-2 and IFN-gamma could not be detected.
In contrast, expression of the activation-dependent cell surface markers CD25 and CD69 was within normal limits.
Whereas AP-1, NF-kappa B, Oct, CREB and SP1 displayed normal binding activities in nuclear extracts, the binding of NF-AT to its IL-2 promoter response element was barely detectable both before and after T cell stimulation.
Calcineurin mutants render T lymphocytes resistant to cyclosporin A..
The immunosuppressants cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB- and FK506 have been widely used to prevent and treat graft rejection after human organ and tissue transplantations.
CsA and FK506 associate with intracellular binding proteins -LRB- i.e., CsA with cyclophilin A and FK506 with FKBP12 -RRB- to form protein/drug complexes that suppress the immune system by preventing activation of T cells in response to antigen presentation.
The common target of CsA and FK506 is calcineurin, a Ca2 + / calmodulin-regulated, serine/threonine-specific protein phosphatase that regulates the nuclear import of a transcription factor, NF-AT, required for expression of T cell activation genes.
In previous studies, we identified calcineurin mutations that block binding by the cyclophilin A/CsA or FKBP12/FK506 complexes and thereby render yeast cells resistant to the antifungal effects of CsA or FK506.
In this report, we demonstrate that the corresponding mutations in murine calcineurin render the T cell receptor signal transduction cascade CsA resistant in human Jurkat T cells.
Activation of Stat 5b in erythroid progenitors correlates with the ability of ErbB to induce sustained cell proliferation.
Self renewal of normal erythroid progenitors is induced by the receptor tyrosine kinase c-ErbB, whereas other receptors -LRB- c-Kit/Epo-R -RRB- regulate erythroid differentiation.
Ligand activation of c-ErbB induced the tyrosine phosphorylation, DNA-binding, and reporter gene transcription of Stat 5b in erythroblasts.
In contrast, ligand activation of c-Kit was unable to induce any of these effects in the same cells.
Activation of the erythropoietin receptor caused specific DNA-binding of Stat 5b, but failed to induce reporter gene transcription.
These biochemical findings correlate perfectly with the selective ability of c-ErbB to cause sustained self renewal in erythroid progenitors.
Cross talk between cell death and cell cycle progression : BCL-2 regulates NFAT-mediated activation.
BCL-2-deficient T cells demonstrate accelerated cell cycle progression and increased apoptosis following activation.
Increasing the levels of BCL-2 retarded the G0 -- > S transition, sustained the levels of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27Kip1, and repressed postactivation death.
Proximal signal transduction events and immediate early gene transcription were unaffected.
However, the transcription and synthesis of interleukin 2 and other delayed early cytokines were markedly attenuated by BCL-2.
In contrast, a cysteine protease inhibitor that also blocks apoptosis had no substantial affect upon cytokine production.
InterleUkin 2 expression requires several transcription factors of which nuclear translocation of NFAT -LRB- nuclear factor of activated T cells -RRB- and NFAT-mediated transactivation were impaired by BCL-2.
Thus, select genetic aberrations in the apoptotic pathway reveal a cell autonomous coregulation of activation.
Translocation -LRB- 3 ; 14 -RRB- -LRB- q27 ; q11 -RRB- : a new variant translocation in a patient with non-Hodgkin 's lymphoma of B-cell type with BCL6 rearrangement.
We report a 65-year-old woman with non-Hodgkin 's lymphoma -LRB- NHL -RRB- carrying a t -LRB- 3 ; 14 -RRB- -LRB- q27 ; q11 -RRB- and BCL6 rearrangement in the affected cells.
She had generalized lymphadenopathy and the bone marrow was infiltrated by lymphoma cells at presentation.
Histological diagnosis was `` malignant lymphoma, diffuse, large cell '' type according to an International Working Formulation.
Chromosome analysis revealed a t -LRB- 3 ; 14 -RRB- -LRB- q27 ; q11 -RRB-, which is a new variant translocation of t -LRB- 3 ; 14 -RRB- -LRB- q27 ; q32 -RRB-.
Southern blot analysis showed rearrangement of BCL6, JH, and TCR beta but not of TCR delta.
Cosmid probe of BCL6 hybridized to 14q11 and 3q27 by fluorescence in situ hybridization -LRB- FISH -RRB-.
Although the band 14q11 is a locus of T-cell receptor alpha - and delta-chains -LRB- TCR alpha/delta -RRB-, lymphoma cells expressed B-cell, IgGk phenotype.
Attenuated function of a variant form of the helix-loop-helix protein, Id-3, generated by an alternative splicing mechanism.
The Id family of helix-loop-helix proteins function as negative regulators of DNA binding, basic helix-loop-helix proteins in the regulation of cell growth and differentiation.
We report here on the identification of a 17 kDa variant of the 14 kDa Id-3 protein termed Id-3L -LRB- long version -RRB- which possesses a unique 60 amino acid carboxy-terminus generated by read through of a ` coding intron' and alternative splicing.
Northern analysis revealed expression of a minor 1.1 kb Id-3L transcript together with the predominant 0.95 kb Id-3 transcript in the majority of adult human tissues analysed.
The variant Id-3L protein is functionally distinguishable from conventional Id-3 since in in vitro DNA mobility shift assays, it was greatly impaired in its ability to abrogate binding of the basic helix-loop-helix protein, E47, to an E box recognition sequence.
IL4 and IL13 receptors share the gamma c chain and activate STAT6, STAT3 and STAT5 proteins in normal human B cells.
IL13 induces the same biological effects as IL4 in normal human B cells.
We show that as in the IL4R complex, both IL4R alpha and IL2R gamma c are components of the IL13R and that both cytokines induced STAT6, STAT3 and STAT5 activation in B cells.
In spite of this similar downstream signalling, IL4 and IL13 used a different set of Janus kinases :.
IL13 is unable to activate JAK1 and JAK3.
Epstein-Barr viral latency is disrupted by the immediate-early BRLF1 protein through a cell-specific mechanism.
Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB-, the causative agent of infectious mononucleosis, is a human herpesvirus associated with epithelial cell malignancies -LRB- nasopharyngeal carcinoma -RRB- as well as B-cell malignancies.
Understanding how viral latency is disrupted is a central issue in herpesvirus biology.
Epithelial cells are the major site of lytic EBV replication within the human host, and viral reactivation occurs in EBV-associated nasopharyngeal carcinomas.
It is known that expression of a single viral immediate-early protein, BZLF1, is sufficient to initiate the switch from latent to lytic infection in B cells.
Here we show that, unexpectedly, expression of another viral immediate-early protein, BRLF1, can disrupt viral latency in an epithelial cell-specific fashion.
Retinoid differentiation therapy in promyelocytic leukemia.
Acute promyelocytic leukemia -LRB- APL -RRB- is a specific type of acute myeloid leukemia characterized by the morphology of the blast cells, a specific t -LRB- 15 ; 17 -RRB- translocation, and risks of definite coagulopathy.
Recently this leukemia was further characterized by an exquisite sensitivity to all-trans retinoic acid 's differentiation effect and the production of a fusion gene altering the gene of RARalpha and a novel gene PML.
In vivo differentiation therapy with retinoids in APL patients follows strict guidelines related both to the APL cell and the biodisposal of all-trans retinoic acid.
Activation of human monocytic cells by Treponema pallidum and Borrelia burgdorferi lipoproteins and synthetic lipopeptides proceeds via a pathway distinct from that of lipopolysaccharide but involves the transcriptional activator NF-kappa B..
There is increasing evidence that lipoproteins of Treponema pallidum and Borrelia burgdorferi are key inflammatory mediators during syphilis and Lyme disease.
A principal objective of the present study was to identify more precisely similarities and divergences among lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- - and lipoprotein-lipopeptide-induced immune cell signaling events.
Like LPS, purified native B. burgdorferi OspA and synthetic analogs of OspA, OspB, and two T. pallidum lipoproteins -LRB- Tpp47 and Tpp17 -RRB- all induced NF-kappa B translocation in THP-1 human monocytoid cells.
Acylation of OspA and the synthetic peptides was requisite for cell activation.
Polymyxin B abrogated only the response to LPS.
Finally, the biological relevance of the observation that T. pallidum lipoproteins-lipopeptides induce both NF-kappa B and cytokine production in monocytes was supported by the ability of the synthetic analogs to promote human immunodeficiency virus replication in chronically infected U1 monocytoid cells ;.
Characterization of a new isoform of the NFAT -LRB- nuclear factor of activated T cells -RRB- gene family member NFATc -LSB- published erratum appears in J Biol Chem 1996 Dec 27 ; 271 -LRB- 52 -RRB- :33705 -RSB-.
The cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB- / FK506-sensitive nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB- plays a key role in the inducible expression of cytokine genes in T cells.
Although NFAT has been recently shown to be inducible in several non-T immune cells, the NFAT gene family members characterized to date have been isolated only from T cells.
To further characterize NFAT function in human B cells and to demonstrate cytokine gene specificity of NFAT proteins, we report here the isolation and characterization of a cDNA clone from the Raji B cell line.
The cDNA clone encodes a new isoform, NFATc.beta, of the NFAT gene family member NFATc -LRB- designated here NFATc.alpha -RRB-.
The amino acid sequence of NFATc.beta differs from that of NFATc.
alpha in the first NH2-terminal 29 residues and contains an additional region of 142 residues at the COOH terminus.
Northern analysis using a probe encompassing a common region of both isoforms showed two mRNA species of 2.7 and 4.5 kilobase pairs, while an NFATc.beta-specific probe detected only the 4.5-kilobase pair mRNA which was preferentially expressed in the spleen.
Transient expression of NFATc.beta was capable of activating an interleukin-2 NFAT-driven reporter gene in stimulated Jurkat cells in a CsA-sensitive manner.
However, NFATc.beta neither bound to the kappa3 element -LRB- an NFAT-binding site -RRB- in the tumor necrosis factor-alpha promoter nor activated the tumor necrosis factor-alpha promoter in cotransfection assays.
Elevated cyclic AMP inhibits NF-kappaB-mediated transcription in human monocytic cells and endothelial cells.
The NF-kappaB/Rel family of transcription factors regulates the inducible expression of many genes in activated human monocytes and endothelial cells.
In this study, we examined the molecular mechanism by which agents that elevate intracellular cAMP inhibit the expression of the tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNFalpha -RRB-, tissue factor, endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule-1, and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 genes.
Both forskolin and dibutyryl cAMP, which elevate intracellular cAMP by independent mechanisms, inhibited TNFalpha and tissue factor expression at the level of transcription.
Induction of NF-kappaB-dependent gene expression in transiently transfected human monocytic THP-1 cells and human umbilical vein endothelial cells was inhibited by elevated cAMP and by overexpression of the catalytic subunit of protein kinase A -LRB- PKA -RRB-.
Elevated cAMP did not prevent nuclear translocation of p50/p65 and c-Rel/p65 heterodimers, decrease nuclear translocation of p65, or significantly modify TNFalpha-induced phosphorylation of p65.
Functional studies demonstrated that transcriptional activation of a plasmid containing multimerized kappaB sites by p65 was inhibited by agents that elevate cAMP and by overexpression of the catalytic subunit of PKA.
Defective transcription of the IL-2 gene is associated with impaired expression of c-Fos, FosB, and JunB in anergic T helper 1 cells.
Anergic CD4 + Th cells do not produce IL-2 when challenged with Ag-pulsed accessory cells because of a transcriptional defect.
In this work, we report that these anergic T cells are defective in their ability to up-regulate protein binding and transactivation at two critical IL-2 DNA enhancer elements : NF-AT -LRB- nuclear factor of activated T cells ; a sequence that binds a heterotrimeric NFATp, Fos, and Jun protein complex -RRB- and Activator Protein-1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB- -LRB- that binds Fos and Jun heterodimers -RRB-.
Western blot analysis of nuclear extracts showed that the impaired DNA-protein interactions in anergic T cells were associated with poor expression of the inducible AP-1 family members c-Fos, FosB, and JunB.
However, the reduced expression of these proteins was not the result of a global TCR/CD3-signaling defect because CD3 cross-linking induced an equivalent increase in intracellular-free calcium ions, as well as NFATp dephosphorylation, translocation to the nucleus, and DNA binding in both normal and anergic T cells.
The role of early growth response gene 1 -LRB- egr-1 -RRB- in regulation of the immune response.
The induction of immediate early genes in cells of the immune system is critical to determining the ultimate outcome of exposure to antigen.
The importance of many of these genes relates to the role their transcription factor products play in dictating patterns of expression of downstream, function-related genes.
Recently, the egr-1 promoter has been shown to be highly responsive to the diverse biochemical signals generated by antigen and cytokines in cells of the immune system.
Furthermore, an important role for egr-1 in determining the differentiation pathway of myeloid cell precursors has been recently elaborated.
Finally, potential targets of regulation by the zinc-finger transcription factor encoded by egr-1 include the interleukin-2, CD44, ICAM-1, and tumor necrosis factor genes.
The role of egr-1 in regulation of the immune response will be discussed in the context of these recent studies.
Sequence-specific DNA binding of the B-cell-specific coactivator OCA-B.
B-cell-specific transcription of immunoglobulin genes is mediated by the interaction of a POU domain containing transcription factor Oct-1 or Oct-2, with the B-cell-specific coactivator OCA-B -LRB- Bob-1, OBF-1 -RRB- and a prototype octamer element.
We find that OCA-B binds DNA directly in the major groove between the two subdomains of the POU domain, requiring both an A at the fifth position of the octamer element and contact with the POU domain.
An amino-terminal fragment of OCA-B binds the octamer site in the absence of a POU domain with the same sequence specificity.
The recognition of both the POU domain and the octamer sequence by OCA-B provides a mechanism for differential regulation of octamer sites containing genes by the ubiquitous factor Oct-1.
Transcriptional analysis of Epstein-Barr virus gene expression in EBV-positive gastric carcinoma : unique viral latency in the tumour cells.
Although case-oriented evidence for an association of Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- with gastric carcinoma has been accumulating recently, the interaction -LRB- s -RRB- between EBV and gastric epithelial cells is/are largely unknown.
In this study, we examined seven EBV-positive gastric carcinoma tissues for viral gene expression at the mRNA level, from which studies on the EBV oncogenicity in human epithelial cells will benefit.
Reverse transcription-PCR analysis showed that all seven EBV-positive tumour tissues constitutively expressed EBV nuclear antigen -LRB- EBNA -RRB- 1 mRNA, but not EBNA2 mRNA.
The EBNA transcription was initiated from one of three EBNA promoters, Qp :.
by contrast, both Cp and Wp were silent, thus resulting in the lack of EBNA2 mRNA.
Latent membrane protein -LRB- LMP -RRB- 2A mRNA was detected in three of seven cases ;.
however, neither LMP1 nor LMP2B mRNA was detected in any of the tumours tested.
Transcripts from the BamHI-A region of the viral genome were detectable in all cases.
These findings further extended our previous data regarding EBV latency in gastric carcinoma cells at the protein level, and have affirmed that the programme of viral gene expression in the tumour more closely resembles ` latency I' represented by Burkitt 's lymphoma than ` latency II' represented by the majority of nasopharyngeal carcinomas.
Chronic human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection of myeloid cells disrupts the autoregulatory control of the NF-kappaB/Rel pathway via enhanced IkappaBalpha degradation.
Productive human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- infection causes sustained NF-kappaB DNA-binding activity in chronically infected monocytic cells.
A direct temporal correlation exists between HIV infection and the appearance of NF-kappaB DNA-binding activity in myelomonoblastic PLB-985 cells.
To examine the molecular basis of constitutive NF-kappaB DNA-binding activity in HIV1 - infected cells, we analyzed the phosphorylation and turnover of IkappaBalpha protein, the activity of the double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase -LRB- PKR -RRB- and the intracellular levels of NF-kappaB subunits in the PLB-985 and U937 myeloid cell models.
HIV-1 infection resulted in constitutive, low-level expression of type 1 interferon -LRB- IFN -RRB- at the mRNA level.
Constitutive PKR activity was also detected in HIV-1-infected cells as a result of low-level IFN production, since the addition of anti-IFN-alpha/beta antibody to the cells decreased PKR expression.
A dramatic increase in the intracellular levels of NF-kappaB subunits c-Rel and NF-kappaB2 p100 and a moderate increase in NF-kappaB2 p52 and RelA -LRB- p65 -RRB- were detected in HIV-1-infected cells, whereas NF-kappaB1 p105/p50 levels were not altered relative to the levels in uninfected cells.
Susceptibility to natural killer cells and down regulation of MHC class I expression in adenovirus 12 transformed cells are regulated by different E1A domains.
All human adenoviruses transform rodent cells in vitro, but only cells transformed by serotypes belonging to subgroups A -LRB- Ad12 -RRB- and B -LRB- Ad3 -RRB- are tumorigenic for immunocompetent animals.
To determine the E1A domain -LRB- s -RRB- responsible for these properties several cell lines were created by transforming baby rat kidney -LRB- BRK -RRB- cells with a set of plasmids expressing different Ad2/Ad12 hybrid E1A gene products.
The MHC class 1 gene expression was inhibited in cells expressing the Ad12 13S mRNA product and in cells transformed with Ad2/Ad12 hybrid E1A gene product harboring the C-terminal part of the conserved region -LRB- CR -RRB- 3 of Ad12.
Susceptibility of these transformed cell lines to NK cells was determined by cytolytic assays.
An IL-2 response element in the human IL-2 receptor alpha chain promoter is a composite element that binds Stat5, Elf-1, HMG-I -LRB- Y -RRB- and a GATA family protein.
Expression of the human interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- receptor alpha chain gene is potently upregulated by its own ligand, IL-2.
We demonstrate that although the individual components of this element do not respond to IL-2, together they form a composite element capable of conferring IL-2 responsiveness to a heterologous promoter.
Multiple factors including Stat5, Elf-1, HMG-I -LRB- Y -RRB- and GATA family proteins bind to the IL-2 response element and mutation of any one of these binding sites diminishes the activity of this element.
Tyrosine kinase and cAMP-dependent protein kinase activities in CD40-activated human B lymphocytes.
In vitro, human B lymphocytes undergo long-term proliferation when activated through CD40, a protein expressed on their cell surface.
The nature of CD40-dependent signals in proliferating fresh human Epstein-Barr virus-negative B lymphocytes is currently unknown.
In this study, a CD40-dependent B cell culture system was used to examine the role of different signal transduction elements.
Protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- depletion generated by a long-term phorbol 12 myristate 13-acetate treatment had weak effects on proliferation.
Rather, tyrosine phosphorylation was shown to be directly involved in mediating CD40-dependent signals.
The use of the protein tyrosine kinase -LRB- PTK -RRB- - specific inhibitor herbimycin A dramatically decreased cellular proliferation without altering the activity of the human immunodeficiency virus-1 long terminal repeat -LRB- HIV-1 LTR -RRB-, a promoter largely dependent on the binding of nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF - kappa B -RRB-.
In contrast, the cAMP-dependent protein kinase specific inhibitor H-89 totally inhibited HIV-1 LTR activity at a concentration as low as 100 nM without affecting cellular proliferation.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assay -LRB- EMSA -RRB- and supershift assay using an NF-kappa B binding sequence from the kappa light chain as a probe, revealed that both p65 -LRB- RelA -RRB- and c-Rel were present in CD40-stimulated B cells.
While PKC depletion did not alter the NF-kappa B level, treatment of B lymphocytes with H-89 or herbimycin A provoked a decrease in the NF-kappa B level.
These observations establish the importance of different signal transducing pathways leading to CD40 activation of B lymphocytes.
Active suppression of the class II transactivator-encoding AIR-1 locus is responsible for the lack of major histocompatibility complex class II gene expression observed during differentiation from B cells to plasma cells.
In this study the genetic control of major histocompatibility complex -LRB- MHC -RRB- class II gene expression during the transition from B cell to plasma cell has been analyzed.
Class II molecules are not expressed in plasma cells because of an active suppression resulting in the abrogation of class II gene transcription.
We show here that the plasma cell-specific repressor function, designated SIR -LRB- suppressor of immune response genes -RRB-, does not act directly on the transcription of class II genes, but instead on the transcription of the AIR-1 gene, whose product, the class II transactivator -LRB- CIITA -RRB-, is fundamental for the regulation of the constitutive and inducible expression of MHC class II genes.
This was unambiguously demonstrated by the fact that plasmacytoma x B cell hybrids carrying an AIR-1 locus derived from CIITA-expressing cells do not express CIITA-specific transcripts.
Transfection of a cDNA containing the human CIITA coding sequence under the control of an heterologous promoter restores expression of human MHC class II genes in the hybrids and is responsible for de novo expression of mouse MHC class II genes in both the mouse plasmacytoma cell line and the hybrids.
These results confirm and extend the notion of the functional conservation of the AIR-1 gene product across species barriers.
Interestingly, in CIITA-transfected cell hybrids, cell surface expression of the human HLA-DQ heterodimer was not observed.
This result was not attributable to lack of HLA-DQ alpha or - DQ beta transcription, because both transcripts were present in the CIITA-transfected hybrids, although at reduced levels.
Chromosome 1 aneusomy with 1p36 under-representation is related to histologic grade, DNA aneuploidy, high c-erb B-2 and loss of bcl-2 expression in ductal breast carcinoma.
Chromosome 1 abnormalities with loss of 1p36 have been investigated in 95 breast-cancer samples by means of a dual-target fluorescence in-situ hybridization -LRB- FISH -RRB- technique using the pUC 1.77 and p1-79 probes, specific for the 1q12 and 1p36 regions, respectively.
Relative 1p36 under-representation was found in 79/95.
The clinical relevance of these alterations was studied by comparing the FISH results with several parameters currently used in breast-cancer pathology.
Distinct patterns of chromosome 1 abnormalities were found among the histologic types of breast carcinoma.
In ductal carcinomas, chromosome 1 alterations increased with histologic grade, DNA aneuploidy, loss of bcl-2 and high c-erb B-2 expression.
These associations were found to be statistically significant.
No correlation between chromosome 1 alterations and nuclear grade, age, size, lymph-node involvement, hormonal receptor presence, proliferation activity or p53 protein expression was detected.
These results indicate the utility of this FISH technique for a better definition of the biological characteristics of ductal carcinomas.
Silencing of human fetal globin expression is impaired in the absence of the adult beta-globin gene activator protein EKLF.
Globin genes are subject to tissue-specific and developmental stage-specific regulation.
A switch from human fetal -LRB- gamma -RRB- - to adult -LRB- beta -RRB- - globin expression occurs within erythroid precursor cells of the adult lineage.
To examine the role of EKLF in the developmental regulation of the human gamma-globin gene we interbred EKLF heterozygotes -LRB- + / - -RRB- with mice harboring a human beta-globin yeast artificial chromosome transgene.
We find that in the absence of EKLF, while human beta-globin expression is dramatically reduced, gamma-globin transcripts are elevated approximately 5-fold.
Impaired silencing of gamma-globin expression identifies EKLF as the first transcription factor participating quantitatively in the gamma-globin to beta-globin switch.
Our findings are compatible with a competitive model of switching in which EKLF mediates an adult stage-specific interaction between the beta-globin gene promoter and the locus control region that excludes the gamma-globin gene.
Modulatory effects of glucocorticoids and catecholamines on human interleukin-12 and interleukin-10 production : clinical implications.
Interleukin-12 -LRB- IL-12 -RRB- is a key inducer of differentiation of uncommitted T helper -LRB- TH -RRB- cells toward the TH1 phenotype, which regulates cellular immunity, whereas IL-10 inhibits TH1 functions and potentiates TH2-regulated responses -LRB- i.e., humoral immunity -RRB-.
To examine the potential effects of stress on TH1/TH2 balance, we studied the ability of three prototype stress hormones-dexamethasone -LRB- a synthetic glucocorticoid -RRB- and the catecholamines norepinephrine and epinephrine-to alter the production of IL-12 -LRB- p70 -RRB- and IL-10 induced by bacterial lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- in human whole blood.
Dexamethasone inhibited LPS-induced bioactive IL-12 production in a dose-dependent fashion and at physiologically relevant concentrations ;.
it had no effect on IL-10 secretion.
Norepinephrine and epinephrine also suppressed IL-12 production in a dose-dependent fashion and at physiological concentrations ;.
both catecholamines, however, dose-dependently increased the production of IL-10.
Nasal NK - and T-cell lymphomas share the same type of Epstein-Barr virus latency as nasopharyngeal carcinoma and Hodgkin 's disease.
Nasal T/NK-cell lymphomas can be further separated into those of natural killer -LRB- NK -RRB- cell lineage or of T-cell lineage, with differences in cellular phenotype, T-cell receptor -LRB- TcR -RRB- gene rearrangement and TcR transcript expression.
Both NK - and T-cell subtypes are closely associated with Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB-.
In this study, EBV gene expression was determined in 23 cases of nasal lymphoma -LRB- NL -RRB- by in situ hybridisation -LRB- ISH -RRB-, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction -LRB- RT-PCR -RRB- and immunohistochemistry -LRB- IH -RRB-.
Of the 23 cases, 19 were classified as NK-cell and 4 as T-cell tumours.
RT-PCR demonstrated that NL of both subtypes expressed EBNAI of the QUK splice pattern, the latent membrane proteins, LMP1 and 2 and the BamHI A rightward transcripts in the absence of EBNA2 mRNAs, compatible with the latency type II pattern.
CD14-mediated signal pathway of Porphyromonas gingivalis lipopolysaccharide in human gingival fibroblasts.
Lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- induces expression of inflammatory cytokines in monocytes/macrophages via CD14, one of the LPS receptors, which is expressed predominantly in these cells.
It has been demonstrated that Porphyromonas gingivalis LPS -LRB- P-LPS -RRB- also is able to induce inflammatory cytokines in human gingival fibroblasts.
In this study, we observed unexpectedly by immunohistochemical, Western blotting -LRB- immunoblotting -RRB-, and Northern -LRB- RNA -RRB- blotting assays that CD14 is expressed at high density in human gingival fibroblasts.
P-LPS-induced expression of the monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 -LRB- MCP-1 -RRB- gene in the cells was inhibited markedly by treatment with anti-human CD14 antibody and was completely inhibited by herbimycin A, a potent inhibitor of tyrosine kinase.
The inhibitor also dramatically inhibited monocyte chemotactic activity of and MCP-1 production by the cells.
Furthermore, P-LPS-induced expression of the MCP-1 gene in the cells also was blocked by inhibitors of two transcription factors, i.e., curcumin, an inhibitor of AP-1, and pyrolidine dithiocarbamate, an inhibitor of NF-kappaB.
Both inhibitors inhibited monocyte chemotactic activity in the culture supernatant of P-LPS-treated cells.
Gel shift mobility assay showed stimulation of the AP-1 and NF-kappaB contents in P-LPS-treated cells.
This study is the first to demonstrate the expression of CD14 in human gingival fibroblasts and to show that the signal-transducing pathway of P-LPS in the cells is mediated by CD14.
Tyrosines 113, 128, and 145 of SLP-76 are required for optimal augmentation of NFAT promoter activity.
SLP-76 -LRB- SH2 domain leukocyte protein of 76 kDa -RRB- is a recently identified substrate of the TCR-stimulated protein tyrosine kinases that functions in the signal transduction cascade linking the TCR with IL-2 gene expression.
In this report, we demonstrate that engagement of the TCR results in tyrosine phosphorylation of SLP-76 in its amino-terminal acidic region.
Two tyrosines -LRB- Y113 and Y128 -RRB- fall within an identical five amino-acid motif and are shown to be phosphorylated upon TCR ligation.
Although mutation of either Y113 and Y128 has a minimal effect on SLP-76 function, mutation of both residues decreases significantly the ability of SLP-76 to promote T cell activation.
The catalytic domain of pp56 -LRB- lck -RRB-, but not its regulatory domain, is sufficient for inducing IL-2 production.
The lymphoid src kinase pp56 -LRB- lck -RRB- has been shown to be essential for the induction of different T lymphocyte responses, including CD4-mediated enhancement of Ag-induced T cell activation, early T cell differentiation, induction of IL-2 production, and cytotoxicity.
However, it has been recently reported that the NH2 regulatory domain is sufficient to mediate CD4 accessory function.
In this report we address the contribution of the regulatory and catalytic domains of pp56 -LRB- lck -RRB- to another function of this enzyme independent of CD4 : TCR-induced IL-2 production.
Only the catalytic, but not the NH2 regulatory, domain of pp56 -LRB- lck -RRB- was able to induce NF-AT region transactivation on its own and to cooperate with other intracellular signals to trigger this response.
Moreover, the catalytic domain of pp56 -LRB- lck -RRB- was able to induce IL-2 cytokine production to an extent similar to that of wild-type pp56 -LRB- lck -RRB-.
We conclude that different domains of the pp56 -LRB- lck -RRB- molecule contribute to regulate distinct biologic functions.
In fact, while the NH2 regulatory domain is sufficient to mediate CD4 accessory function, we show here that the catalytic domain of pp56 -LRB- lck -RRB- is sufficient for induction of IL-2 production, mimicking TCR ligation.
Isolation and characterization of murine fra-1 : induction mediated by CD40 and surface Ig is protein kinase C dependent.
The murine fra-1 gene, encoding Fos-related Ag 1, was isolated from a splenic cDNA library and sequenced.
Murine fra-1 was highly homologous to rat and human fra-1.
Oligonucleotide primers based on the murine sequence were used to construct a quantitative reverse transcription-PCR assay for gene expression.
B lymphocyte stimulation via both CD40 and surface Ig -LRB- sIg -RRB- receptors substantially induced fra-1 expression, and for both receptors, induction was protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- dependent.
CD40-mediated fra-1 induction did require tyrosine kinase activity.
Apoptosis signaling pathways in normal T cells : differential activity of Bcl-2 and IL-1beta-converting enzyme family protease inhibitors on glucocorticoid - and Fas-mediated cytotoxicity.
Fas-mediated apoptosis plays an important role in regulating the immune response in peripheral T cells.
Restimulation of T cell blasts up-regulates Fas and Fas ligand expression, with subsequent interaction leading to cell death.
Overexpression of Bcl-2 in tumor cells blocks apoptosis induced by many stimuli, but inhibition of Fas-mediated killing has not been consistently observed.
To examine the behavior of Bcl-2 in normal cells, T cell blasts were transiently transfected with Bcl-2 and related gene products to determine the effect on apoptotic signaling.
Transient overexpression of Bcl-2 in mouse and human T cell blasts did not block Fas-mediated apoptosis, whereas etoposide - and glucocorticoid-induced cytotoxicity was potently inhibited.
Expression of Bcl-xL and adenovirus E1B 19K did not interfere with anti-Fas killing.
In contrast, interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme family protease inhibitors Ac-DEVD-CHO and CrmA blocked Fas-mediated apoptosis.
Comparative analysis identifies conserved tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 3 binding sites in the human and simian Epstein-Barr virus oncogene LMP1.
Nonhuman primates are naturally infected with a B-lymphotropic herpesvirus closely related to Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB-.
These simian EBV share considerable genetic, biologic, and epidemiologic features with human EBV, including virus-induced tumorigenesis.
However, latent, transformation-associated viral genes demonstrate marked sequence divergence among species despite the conserved functions.
We have cloned the latent membrane protein 1 -LRB- LMP1 -RRB- homologs from the simian EBV naturally infecting baboons -LRB- cercopithicine herpesvirus 12, herpesvirus papio -RRB- and rhesus monkeys -LRB- cercopithicine herpesvirus 15 -RRB- for a comparative study with the human EBV oncogene.
The transmembrane domains are well conserved, but there is striking sequence divergence of the carboxy-terminal cytoplasmic domain essential for B-cell immortalization and interaction with the tumor necrosis factor receptor signaling pathway.
Nevertheless, the simian EBV LMP1s retain most functions in common with EBV LMP1, including the ability to induce NF - -LRB- kappa -RRB- B activity in human cells, to bind the tumor necrosis factor-associated factor 3 -LRB- TRAF3 -RRB- in vitro, and to induce expression of tumor necrosis factor-responsive genes, such as ICAM1, in human B lymphocytes.
Multiple TRAF3 binding sites containing a PXQXT/S core sequence can be identified in the simian EBV LMP1s by an in vitro binding assay.
A PXQXT/S-containing sequence is also present in the cytoplasmic domain of the Hodgkin 's disease marker, CD30, and binds TRAF3 in vitro.
Rapid shuttling of NF-AT in discrimination of Ca2 + signals and immunosuppression.
Cells need to distinguish between transient Ca2 + signals that induce events such as muscle contraction, secretion, adhesion and synaptic transmission, and sustained Ca2 + signals that are involved in cell proliferation and differentiation.
The latter class of events is blocked in lymphocytes by the immunosuppressive drugs cyclosporin A and FK506, which inhibit calcineurin, a Ca2 + - activated serine/threonine phosphatase necessary for the nuclear import of NF-AT transcription factors.
Here we report that sustained high concentrations of Ca2 +, but not transient pulses, are required to maintain NF-AT transcription factors in the nucleus, where they participate in Ca2 + - dependent induction of genes required for lymphocyte activation and proliferation.
Furthermore, overexpression and constitutive nuclear localization of NF-AT, but not Jun, Fos, NF-kappaB, Oct or Ets family members, renders the interleukin-2 enhancer in Jurkat T lymphocytes resistant to FK506 and cyclosporin A..
Thus a primary effect of these immunosuppressive reagents is to control the subcellular localization of the NF-AT family of transcription factors.
Interferons induce normal and aberrant retinoic-acid receptors type alpha in acute promyelocytic leukemia cells :.
potentiation of the induction of retinoid-dependent differentiation markers.
Treatment of the acute promyelocytic -LRB- APL -RRB- cell line NB4 with interferon alpha -LRB- IFN -LRB- alpha -RRB- -RRB-, as well as IFN -LRB- beta -RRB- and gamma, results in an increased expression of the transcripts coding for retinoic-acid receptor type alpha -LRB- RAR -LRB- alpha -RRB- -RRB- and the leukemia-specific retinoic acid receptor PML-RAR.
Transcriptional induction of the RAR -LRB- alpha -RRB- and PML-RAR mRNAs is rapid and it is parallelled by an increase in the corresponding proteins.
Up-regulation of RAR -LRB- alpha -RRB- and PML-RAR gene expression by IFN -LRB- alpha -RRB- is accompanied by a strong potentiation in the induction of 2 retinoid-dependent granulocytic markers, i.e., granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor receptor mRNA and leukocyte alkaline phosphatase.
However, IFN -LRB- alpha -RRB- does not have any effects on the retinoid-dependent regulation of the myeloid surface markers CD11b and CD33.
Interferons as well as retinoids inhibit the growth of NB4 cells, although the 2 classes of compounds do not significantly interact in terms of anti-proliferative activity.
A critical role of Sp1 - and Ets-related transcription factors in maintaining CTL-specific expression of the mouse perforin gene.
This study was designed to determine the potential cis-elements involved in transcriptional regulation of the mouse perforin gene.
DNase I hypersensitive site -LRB- DHS -RRB- mapping revealed that the perforin locus contained six DHS within 7.0 kb of the 5' upstream sequence -LRB- -7.0 kb -RRB- and two DHS in intron 2.
The six 5' upstream and one intronic DHS were detected in only perforin-expressing lymphocytes.
Chloramphenicol acetyltransferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- activities directed by 5' upstream promoter were detected preferentially in perforin-expressing cell lines.
A construct termed PFP5a containing -795 bp exhibited the highest CAT activity, and PFP9a20 containing only -73 bp also produced significantly high CAT activity in CTLL-R8 cells.
The proximal region in PFP9a20 contained two potential Sp1 binding sites -LRB- GC box and GT box -RRB- and one Ets binding site -LRB- EBS -RRB-.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assay showed that each of the cis-elements bound specific protein factors.
When single-point mutation was introduced to each GC box, EBS, and GT box in PFP9a20, at least 3-fold less CAT activity was observed in CTLL-R8 cells.
To confirm the importance of the three cis-acting elements in the perforin gene expression, point mutation was introduced again to each proximal GC box, EBS, and GT box of PFP5a.
The point mutations resulted in a 2.5 - to 3-fold reduction of CAT activity.
IL-12-induced activation of NK and T cells occurs in the absence of immediate-early activation gene expression.
Using reverse-transcription PCR differential display, we isolated an mRNA species expressed in IL-2 - but not IL-12-stimulated NK cells.
This was identified as the mRNA encoding the transcription factor egr-1, which is expressed with fast kinetics in T and NK cells upon IL-2, but not IL-12, stimulation.
Analysis of the accumulation of mRNA-encoding members of the AP-1 transcription factor family demonstrated that c-fos and junB are also expressed upon stimulation of NK and T cells with IL-2, but not IL-12, whereas expression of c-jun and junD is not modified by either cytokine.
Accordingly, increased AP-1 DNA-binding activity and AP-1-dependent transcriptional activity were detected exclusively in IL-2-stimulated cells.
Analysis of the expression of genes reported to regulate cytokine-induced proliferation demonstrated that both IL-2 and IL-12 induce c-myc mRNA accumulation in NK and T cells, whereas only IL-2 induces bcl-2 expression.
Our data provide the first demonstration that IL-12-mediated activation of T and NK cells does not involve expression of members of the immediate-early activation genes family -LRB- egr-1, c-fos, and junB -RRB-, AP-1 transcriptional activity, or bcl-2 expression.
Dual action of retinoic acid on human embryonic/fetal hematopoiesis : blockade of primitive progenitor proliferation and shift from multipotent/erythroid/monocytic to granulocytic differentiation program.
In preliminary studies, we have analyzed the hematopoietic growth factor -LRB- HGF -RRB- requirement of hematopoietic progenitor cells -LRB- HPCs -RRB- purified from embryonic-fetal liver -LRB- FL -RRB- and grown in fetal calf serum-supplemented -LRB- FCS + -RRB- clonogenic culture.
The key role of erythropoietin -LRB- Epo -RRB- for colony formation by early erythroid progenitors -LRB- burst-forming units-erythroid -LSB- BFU-E -RSB- -RRB- has been confirmed.
Furthermore, in the absence of exogenous HGFs, FL monocytic progenitors -LRB- colony-forming unit monocyte -LSB- CFU-M -RSB- -RRB- generate large colonies exclusively composed of monocytes-macrophages ;.
these colonies are absent in FCS - clonogenic culture.
On this basis, we have investigated the role of all-trans retinoic acid -LRB- ATRA -RRB- and its isomer 9-cis RA in FL hematopoiesis.
Both compounds modulate the growth of purified FL HPCs, which show a dose-dependent shift from mixed/erythroid/monocytic to granulocytic colony formation.
High concentrations of either compound -LRB- 1 -RRB- drastically reduced the number of primary HPP-CFC colonies and totally abolished their recloning capacity and -LRB- 2 -RRB- inhibited HSC proliferation.
Soluble factors secreted by activated T-lymphocytes modulate the transcription of the immunosuppressive cytokine TGF-beta 2 in glial cells.
Coordination of the immune response to injury or disease in the brain is postulated to involve bi-directional discourse between the immune system and the central nervous system.
This cross communication involves soluble mediators, including various growth factors, cytokines, and neuropeptides.
In this report, we demonstrate that the supernatant from activated T-lymphocytes is able to induce the transcription of a potent cytokine, TGF-beta 2 in glial cells.
The activating stimulus invokes signaling mechanisms distinct from known kinase or protease pathways.
Activation of TGF-beta 2 transcription correlates with the loss of binding activity for an 80 kDA glial labile repressor protein, GLRP, to a responsive region within the TFG-beta 2 promoter.
These data along with previous observations demonstrating the potent immunosuppressive activity of TGF-beta 2, support a model for a feedback mechanism between the activated T-lymphocytes and astrocytes via TGF-beta 2 to regulate the immune response.
Regulation of interferon-gamma gene expression.
Interferon-gamma -LRB- IFN-gamma -RRB-, also known as type II interferon, is an important immunoregulatory gene that has multiple effects on the development, maturation, and function of the immune system.
IFN-gamma mRNA and protein are expressed predominantly by T cells and large granular lymphocytes.
The IFN-gamma mRNA is induced/inhibited in these cell types by a wide variety of extracellular signals, thus implicating a number of diverse, yet convergent signal transduction pathways in its transcriptional control.
Vitamin D3 - and retinoic acid-induced monocytic differentiation : interactions between the endogenous vitamin D3 receptor, retinoic acid receptors, and retinoid X receptors in U-937 cells.
Retinoic acid -LRB- RA -RRB- and 1,25 alpha-dihydroxycholecalciferol -LRB- VitD3 -RRB- are potent regulators of hematopoletic differentiation.
Therefore, we analyzed the expression, DNA binding, and transcriptional activity of the endogenous RA and VitD3 receptors -LSB- retinoic acid receptors -LRB- RARs -RRB-, retinoid X receptors -LRB- RXRs -RRB-, and VitD3 receptor -LRB- VDR -RRB- -RSB- in the U-937 cell line, in which RA and VitD3 induce distinct monocytic differentiation pathways.
VitD3 induction resulted in the formation of VDR/RXR DNA-binding complexes on both VitD3 response elements and RA response elements -LRB- RAREs -RRB-.
However, transcriptional activation was only observed from a VitD3 response element-driven reporter construct.
Several DNA-binding complexes were detected on RAREs in undifferentiated cells.
Stimulation by RA resulted in increased RAR beta/RXR DNA binding, activated RARE-dependent transcription, and increased expression of RAR-beta.
Concomitant stimulation by VitD3 inhibited the RA-stimulated formation of RAR beta/RXR heterodimers, favoring VDR/RXR binding to the RARE.
Also, VitD3 inhibited the expression of CD23 and CD49f, characteristic markers of retinoid-induced U-937 cell differentiation.
Calcium-dependent immediate-early gene induction in lymphocytes is negatively regulated by p21Ha-ras.
The induction of immediate-early -LRB- IE -RRB- response genes, such as egr-1, c-fos, and c-jun, occurs rapidly after the activation of T lymphocytes.
The process of activation involves calcium mobilization, activation of protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB-, and phosphorylation of tyrosine kinases.
p21 -LRB- ras -RRB-, a guanine nucleotide binding factor, mediates T-cell signal transduction through PKC-dependent and PKC-independent pathways.
We have investigated the inductions of the IE genes in response to calcium signals in Jurkat cells -LRB- in the presence of activated p21 -LRB- ras -RRB- -RRB- and their correlated consequences.
The expression of activated p21 -LRB- ras -RRB- negatively regulated the induction of IE genes by calcium ionophore.
A later result of inhibition of this activation pathway by p21 -LRB- ras -RRB- was down-regulation of the activity of the transcription factor AP-1 and subsequent coordinate reductions in IL-2 gene expression and protein production.
Inorganic lead activates NF-kappa B in primary human CD4 + T lymphocytes.
Inorganic lead -LRB- Pb -RRB- is a ubiquitous environmental contaminant that produces a variety of effects on humoral and cell mediated immune responses.
The underlying molecular mechanism for Pb 's complex effects on the immune system remain obscure.
NF-kappa B is critical for T lymphocyte function and is a strong inducer of HIV-LTR activation.
We demonstrate that Pb at physiologically relevant concentrations activates NF-kappa B in primary human CD4 + T lymphocytes.
Functional activation of gene expression by Pb was confirmed using primary CD4 + T cells transfected with an NF-kappa B dependent reporter gene construct.
Suppression of c-jun by antisense oligonucleotides inhibits cell adhesion but not respiratory burst during phorbol ester-induced differentiation of U937 human monoblastic cells.
We studied the role of the immediate early gene c-jun in cell proliferation and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- - induced differentiation in U937 human monoblastic cells, using c-jun-specific antisense -LRB- AS -RRB- phosphorothioate oligonucleotides.
In selecting the most specific and potent oligonucleotide sequence, we performed extensive analyses for the binding specificity between all candidates of c-jun AS oligonucleotides and the whole sequences in GenBank database, using a computer program.
Among the 20 selected oligonucleotides, two potent 15-mer AS oligonucleotides -LRB- C-JUN AS oligonucleotides -RRB- exhibited significant inhibition of cell growth in a dose-dependent manner between 2 and 10 microM.
Reverse transcription-PCR and Western blot analysis demonstrated that 10 microM of C-JUN AS oligonucleotides reduced c-jun expression at both the mRNA and protein levels.
More importantly, C-JUN AS oligonucleotides showed distinct effects on two markers of PMA-induced differentiation ;.
the C-JUN AS oligonucleotides inhibited cell adhesion, whereas they did not affect another marker of differentiation, respiratory burst -LRB- measured by nitro blue tetrazolium reduction assay -RRB-.
Transcriptional control of steroid-regulated apoptosis in murine thymoma cells.
To better understand the contribution of the GR N-terminal transactivation domain in mediating murine thymocyte apoptosis, we stably transfected GR, GR variants, and the androgen receptor -LRB- AR -RRB- into receptor-negative S49 murine thymoma cells.
GR expression levels were shown to be rate-limiting for initiating the apoptotic pathway, and a positive correlation between steroid sensitivity and GR-mediated induction of an integrated mouse mammary tumor virus -LRB- MMTV -RRB- LTR reporter gene was observed.
Analysis of GR chimeric receptors containing the potent VP16 and E1A viral transactivation domains in place of the GR N terminus revealed that even low level expression of these receptors resulted in both enhanced steroid sensitivity and MMTV induction, thus supporting a role for transactivation in apoptosis.
In contrast, we found that AR can initiate apoptosis in S49 cells after treatment with 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone, despite its relative inability to induce high level expression of MMTV.
To investigate this further, we examined the steroid-regulated expression of an endogenous thymocyte-specific gene called GIG18.
Uneven X inactivation in a female monozygotic twin pair with Fabry disease and discordant expression of a novel mutation in the alpha-galactosidase A gene.
We describe two female monozygotic -LRB- MZ -RRB- twins heterozygous for Fabry disease, an X linked disorder resulting from the deficient activity of alpha-galactosidase A..
While one of the twins was clinically affected, the other was asymptomatic.
The son of the unaffected twin sister was shown to be hemizygous.
Molecular analysis of the alpha-galactosidase A gene permitted the identification of an as yet undescribed point mutation at position 10182 of exon 5 which causes an Asp to Asn substitution at codon 231.
Single strand conformation polymorphism -LRB- SSCP -RRB- analysis again showed the heterozygous status of the twins and a normal pattern in their parents.
The basis for the discordant expression of this d novo mutation in the twins was investigated by studying their X inactivation status.
Analysis of the inactive X specific methylation at the androgen receptor gene showed unbalanced inactivation in the twins' fibroblasts and in opposite directions.
While the maternally derived X chromosome was preferentially active in the asymptomatic twin, the paternal X chromosome was active in the other, affected twin and was found in her hemizygotic nephew.
This is the first documented case of female twins discordant for Fabry disease.
Human TAFII 105 is a cell type-specific TFIID subunit related to hTAFII130.
We previously characterized Drosophila and human TAF subunits that make up the core TFIID complex found in all cells.
Here, we report that differentiated B cells contain a novel substoichiometric TAF of 105 kDa not found associated with TFIID isolated from other cell types.
The cDNA encoding hTAFII105 reveals a highly conserved C-terminal domain shared by hTAFII130 and oTAFII110, while the N-terminal coactivator domain has diverged significantly.
All cells tested express TAFII105 mRNA, but only B cells contain significant levels of protein associated with TFIID.
Transient overexpression of hTAFII105 selectively squelches the transcription of some genes in B cells.
Eosinophil priming by cytokines : from cellular signal to in vivo modulation.
Eosinophils play an important role in the effector phase of allergic inflammation.
This review will focus on the conversion of the unprimed eosinophil phenotype in the peripheral blood of normal individuals to the primed phenotype found in the peripheral blood and tissues of allergic patients, a phenomenon called priming.
Recent data on the signals initiated after cytokine receptor activation on eosinophils will be reviewed.
Signaling by IL-2 and related cytokines : JAKs, STATs, and relationship to immunodeficiency.
Cytokines that bind to the interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- receptor common gamma chain -LRB- gamma c -RRB-, including IL-2, IL-4, IL-7, IL-9, and IL-15, are important for the growth and differentiation of T and B lymphocytes, natural killer cells, macrophages, and monoctyes.
These cytokines have overlapping biological effects that in part result from the use of the shared receptor subunit gamma c..
Recently it has become clear that these cytokines activate a number of important intracellular signaling molecules, including the Janus kinases JAK1 and JAK3 and members of the transcription factor family of signal transducers and activators of transcription -LRB- STATs -RRB-.
The discovery of these signaling pathways has led to important new insights into their role in lymphocyte maturation, as it has emerged that mutations in the genes encoding both gamma c and JAK3 result in similar forms of severe combined immunodeficiency -LRB- SCID -RRB-.
In this review we examine the structure and function of cytokine receptors and the signaling pathways involved in their regulation of gene expression.
Furthermore, we discuss recent advances that have led to a better understanding of how cytokines elicit intracellular responses, as well as their role in normal lymphoid development.
The suppression of T cell function and NF -LRB- kappa -RRB- B expression by serine protease inhibitors is blocked by N-acetylcysteine.
Direct evidence that N-acetylcysteine -LRB- NAC -RRB- enhances the immune response of peripheral blood T cells at the level of NF -LRB- kappa -RRB- B is presented.
In addition, NAC blocks the suppression of T cell mitogenesis and cytokine production by protease inhibitors such as N-tosylphenylalanine chloromethyl ketone -LRB- TPCK -RRB-.
The proliferative responses of purified CD4 + or CD8 + T cells are suppressed more strongly by TPCK when anti-CD28 rather than the phorbol ester PMA is used as the mitogenic coactivator.
Cytokine -LRB- IL-2, IL-6, INF-gamma -RRB- production is inhibited 95-100 % by concentrations of TPCK that totally suppress the mitogenesis of CD4 + or CD8 + cells.
Using electrophoretic mobility shift assays, we find that TPCK virtually abolishes -LRB- to less than 1 % -RRB- the levels of NF -LRB- kappa -RRB- B -LRB- but not Oct-1 -RRB- found in nuclear and whole cell extracts of activated T cells.
Strikingly, the immunosuppressive effects of TPCK are blocked when T cells are pretreated for 15 min with 5 mM NAC.
NAC not only blocks the effect of TPCK but enhances mitogenesis and cytokine production -LRB- > 2.5-fold in some cases -RRB- upon activation of unsuppressed T cells.
Molecular mechanisms of steroid action : a novel type of cross-talk between glucocorticoids and NF-kappa B transcription factors.
Despite the widespread use of glucocorticoids in the treatment of diseases characterized by inflammation, the molecular mechanism -LRB- s -RRB- by which these hormones exert this beneficial effect in patients with asthma remains to be elucidated.
We observed that in a monocytic -LRB- U937 -RRB- and a bronchial epithelial -LRB- H292 -RRB- cell-line dexamethasone strongly suppressed basal and induced ICAM-1 expression.
Subsequent analysis of the human ICAM-1 promoter has revealed that both 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB- and tumour necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- upregulate ICAM-1 expression through the presence of a nuclear factor -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- target sequence -LRB- TGGAAATTCC -RRB-.
No glucocorticoid recognition sequences are present in this promoter region and dexamethasone is still able to repress transcription when the multimerized NF-kappa B sequence is transactivated by TNF-alpha upon transfection in 293 cells.
Dexamethasone suppression test : corticosteroid receptors regulation in mononuclear leukocytes of young and aged subjects.
The effect of the steroid is mediated by its binding to corticosteroid receptors.
In the present study, corticosteroid Type I and Type II receptors in mononuclear leukocytes were measured in 10 elderly subjects and in 9 young adults, before and after overnight DST -LRB- 1 mg -RRB-.
Receptors were measured by radioreceptor assay.
In all the subjects, dexamethasone was able to suppress plasma cortisol.
The number of Type I and Type II receptors before the test was lower in elderly subjects than in adults.
In the control group, dexamethasone produced a significant depression of Type I receptors -LRB- from 267 + / - 72 to 169 + / - 71 receptors per cell -RRB-, which can be interpreted as a primary involvement of Type I receptors in the response to dexamethasone ;.
Type II receptors decreased in half the subjects -LRB- from 2849 + / - 703 to 2345 + / - 569 receptors per cell -RRB-.
In elderly healthy subjects, Type II receptors were also significantly decreased -LRB- from 1796 + / - 671 to 720 + / - 345 -RRB-.
Lymphocytes from CML patients lack a 47 kDa factor having affinity for a genomic sterol regulatory sequence.
Deranged cellular cholesterol homeostasis has been widely recognized in the initiation as well as progression of various types of cancers including chronic myeloid leukaemia -LRB- CML -RRB-.
Since the human genomic sterol regulatory element -LRB- SRE -RRB- has been shown to regulate various key genes involved in this phenomenon, the present study revealed the existence of a unique 47 kDa protein factor having affinity for this SRE sequence in lymphocytes from normal subjects, as well as its absence in lymphocytes from untreated CML patients.
However, this factor appeared when these CML patients achieved complete haematological remission -LRB- CHR -RRB- through alpha-interferon therapy.
Furthermore, an inverse relationship was also observed between the LDL receptor gene expression at the transcriptional level and the binding affinity of this 47 kDa protein factor to the SRE sequence.
HIV-1 LTR activity in human CD40-activated B lymphocytes is dependent on NF-kappaB.
CD40-stimulated human B lymphocytes are highly permissive to a productive infection by the human immunodeficiency virus type 1.
In these cells, nuclear factors involved in activation of the HIV-1 LTR, which contains the transcriptional control elements of the virus, are unknown.
Transient expression assays with plasmids containing deleted parts of the LTR region linked to a reporter gene showed that the NF-kappaB binding site was essential for HIV-1 LTR activity in CD40-stimulated B lymphocytes.
In addition, electrophoretic mobility shift and supershift assays revealed that important NF-kappaB binding activity composed of at least p50, p65, and c-Rel NF-kappaB subunits was present in nuclei of CD40-stimulated B cells.
These results confirm at a molecular level the ability of HIV-1 to replicate in B cells and that this activity is strongly associated with NF-kappaB.
Mutation of tyrosines 492/493 in the kinase domain of ZAP-70 affects multiple T-cell receptor signaling pathways.
The protein-tyrosine kinase ZAP-70 is implicated, together with the Src kinase p56 -LRB- lck -RRB-, in controlling the early steps of the T-cell antigen receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- signaling cascade.
To help elucidate further the mechanism by which ZAP-70 regulates these initial events, we used a dominant-negative mutant approach.
This mutant inhibited TCR-induced activation of nuclear factor of activated T cells by interfering with both intracellular calcium increase and Ras-regulated activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases.
Moreover, TCR-induced phosphorylation of pp36-38, thought to play a role upstream of these pathways, was found to be reduced.
In contrast, overexpression of wild-type ZAP-70 induced constitutive activation of nuclear factor of activated T cells.
The ZAP-70 mutant studied here could be phosphorylated on tyrosine when associated to the TCR zeta chain and was able to bind p56 -LRB- lck -RRB-.
This result demonstrates that Tyr-492 and Tyr-493 are not responsible for the Src homology domain 2-mediated association of p56 -LRB- lck -RRB- with ZAP-70.
Our data are most consistent with a model in which recruitment to the TCR allows ZAP-70 autophosphorylation and binding to p56 -LRB- lck -RRB-, which in turn phosphorylates Tyr-492 and/or Tyr-493 with consequent up-regulation of the ZAP-70 kinase activity.
ZAP-70 will then be able to effectively control phosphorylation of its substrates and lead to gene activation.
Activation of nuclear factor-kappaB via T cell receptor requires a Raf kinase and Ca2 + influx.
Functional synergy between Raf and calcineurin.
Signals transduced via the TCR activate the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB-, which, in turn, is critical to the transcriptional induction of many genes important for the proliferation and expression of a differentiated phenotype.
Treatment of T cells with the protein kinase C activator PMA in combination with Ca2 + ionophores mimics this process, and the two agents are often substituted for TCR stimulation, bypassing the TCR.
Here we identify intracellular signaling components involved in activation of NF-kappaB following TCR stimulation.
TCR signaling was triggered by treating Jurkat T cells with PHA or anti-CD3 Abs, and NF-kappaB activation was monitored by electrophoretic mobility shift assays and/or by kappaB-dependent reporter assays.
Contrary to the idea that protein kinase C is involved in TCR-mediated activation of NF-kappaB, high doses of staurosporine did not interfere with activation of NF-kappaB by PHA, while the same dose of staurosporine completely blocked activation by PMA.
The TCR-mediated activation of NF-kappaB was also dependent on a Ca2 + influx, because the Ca2 + channel blocker, SK&F 96365, as well as other agents that prevented the Ca2 + influx, inhibited NF-kappaB activation.
Cotransfection of a constitutively active form of calcineurin largely substituted for the Ca2 + requirement and reversed the blockade by SK&F 96365.
Induction of the CD11b gene during activation of the monocytic cell line U937 requires a novel nuclear factor MS-2 -LSB- published erratum appears in J Immunol 1999 Jul 15 ; 163 -LRB- 2 -RRB- :1091 -RSB-.
The differentiation of myeloid precursors into mature myelomonocytic cells is characterized by the induction of the gene encoding the beta2 integrin CD11b.
The transcription factors Sp1 and PU .1 prime the CD11b promoter, but the nature of the factors responsible for its inducible expression are unknown.
In addition to the CD11b gene, the homologous genes encoding CD11a and CD11c also exhibit inducible expression during myeloid differentiation.
This analysis identified one such element repeated four times within the CD11b promoter.
These factors are detected at the time the CD11b promoter is activated.
The molecular mass of these factors is approximately 28 kDa, and their DNA binding characteristics are indistinguishable from those of the novel nuclear factor MS-2.
Expression of Egr-1 correlates with the transformed phenotype and the type of viral latency in EBV genome positive lymphoid cell lines.
In this paper we have investigated the role of Egr-1 in B cell growth regulation by examining the gene expression in a panel of B cell lines, including both EBV genome negative and EBV carrying cell lines.
Egr-1 expression correlates with the cellular phenotype and the specific pattern of viral latency established within the individual cell lines.
Thus, constitutive activation of Egr-1 gene is invariably associated with unrestricted expression of viral latent genes in all group III EBV genome carrying cell lines.
In contrast, Egr-1 expression is abrogated in group I Burkitt tumor cells, irrespective of the EBV genome carrying status.
Activated viral gene expression associated with phenotypic conversion of group I cell lines in to group II or III restores the Egr-1 gene expression.
Several forms of EGR-1 protein are found within the different groups of cell lines, and the binding activity to DNA consensus sequences was investigated.
Finally, time course analysis of Egr-1 expression during the early steps of EBV infection in vitro demonstrated that Egr-1 is upregulated within minutes from the initial interaction with the B lymphocyte.
The proximal regulatory element of the interferon-gamma promoter mediates selective expression in T cells.
Interferon-gamma -LRB- IFN-gamma -RRB- is produced by natural killer cells and certain subsets of T cells, but the basis for its selective expression is unknown.
Within the region between -108 and -40 base pairs of the IFN-gamma promoter are two conserved and essential regulatory elements, which confer activation-specific expression in T cells.
The proximal element is a composite site that binds members of the CREB/ATF, AP-1, and octamer families of transcription factors.
Jun is essential for activation-induced transcription and binds preferably as a heterodimer with ATF-2.
The CpG dinucleotide in this element is selectively methylated in Th2 T cells and other cells that do not express IFN-gamma, and methylation markedly reduces transcription factor binding.
Effects of Ara-C on neutral sphingomyelinase and mitogen - and stress - activated protein kinases in T-lymphocyte cell lines.
Neutral SMase activity was assessed in membranes from Jurkat, a human T-cell line, and EL4, a murine T-cell line.
Ara-C activated SMase with 10 minutes in both Jurkat and EL4 cells, while phorbol ester -LRB- PMA -RRB- had no effect.
PMA, but not Ara-C or ceramides, activated ERK MAPKS, in Jurkat and EL4.
PMA acted synergistically with ionomycin to activate JNK MAPKs in Jurkat and EL4 within 10 minutes.
Ara-C activated JNKs only after prolonged incubation -LRB- 90-120 minutes -RRB-.
Thus, ceramide is not a positive signal for ERK activation in T-cell lines.
-LSB- Cortisone-resistant bronchial asthma -RSB-.
There is general agreement on the inflammatory pathogenesis of bronchial asthma :.
an accumulation of activated eosinophils, degranulated mast cells, T lymphocytes and in very severe forms, granulocytes has constantly been found in the bronchial mucosa.
Although corticosteroids are the most potent therapeutic agents used for this disease, their anti-inflammatory effect differs from patient to patient.
Some criteria which can be used to define steroid-resistant bronchial asthma are listed here.
This review analyzes various molecular alterations responsible for the deficient response to corticosteroid treatment observed in steroid-resistant bronchial asthmatic subjects.
CD40, but not lipopolysaccharide and anti-IgM stimulation of primary B lymphocytes, leads to a persistent nuclear accumulation of RelB.
In this study we analyzed the effect of CD40 stimulation on the activity and nuclear appearance of Rel/nuclear factor kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- factors in primary murine B lymphocytes.
We show that triggering of CD40 signaling pathway -LRB- s -RRB- by CD40 ligands expressed on L cells led to strong activation of an NF-kappaB-controlled beta-globin reporter gene in primary B lymphocytes from transgenic mice.
Analyses of nuclear translocation of individual members of Rel proteins after CD40 induction of primary B cells showed a strong and long-lasting accumulation of RelB and, less pronounced, of c-Rel.
LPS stimulation did not give rise to a persistent nuclear accumulation of RelB and c-Rel, whereas nuclear c-Rel, but not RelB, accumulated after B cell receptor stimulation.
CD40 induced not only nuclear translocation but also de novo synthesis of RelB RNA and protein.
S107 plasmacytoma cells, which express CD40 but are defective for the nuclear appearance of p50/p65-NF-kappaB, do not express RelB after CD40 stimulation.
In S107 cells stably transfected with relB genes, stimulation of nuclear RelB translocation by CD40 was observed.
Sterol dependent LDL-receptor gene transcription in lymphocytes from normal and CML patients.
Sterol regulatory element -LRB- SRE -RRB- has been recognized to regulate various key genes coding for especially low density lipoprotein -LRB- LDL -RRB- - receptor, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A -LRB- HMG-CoA -RRB- reductase and HMG-CoA synthase known to play a crucial role in the cholesterol feedback mechanism.
The deranged cholesterol feedback mechanism has been widely recognised in initiation as well as progression of various types of cancers including chronic myeloid leukaemia -LRB- CML -RRB-.
Consequently, the present study was addressed to understand this phenomenon and revealed the existence of a unique 47 kDa protein factor having affinity for this SRE sequence in lymphocytes from normal subjects as well as its absence in lymphocytes from untreated CML patients.
However, this factor appeared when the CML patients achieved complete haematological remission -LRB- CHR -RRB- through alpha-interferon therapy.
Further, an inverse relationship was also observed between sterol modulated LDL-receptor gene transcription and the binding affinity of this 47 kDa factor to the SRE sequence.
Elf-1 and Stat5 bind to a critical element in a new enhancer of the human interleukin-2 receptor alpha gene -LSB- published erratum appears in Mol Cell Biol 1997 Apr ; 17 -LRB- 4 -RRB- :2351 -RSB-.
The interleukin 2 receptor alpha-chain -LRB- IL-2R alpha -RRB- gene is a key regulator of lymphocyte proliferation.
IL-2R alpha is rapidly and potently induced in T cells in response to mitogenic stimuli.
Interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- stimulates IL-2R alpha transcription, thereby amplifying expression of its own high-affinity receptor.
IL-2R alpha transcription is at least in part controlled by two positive regulatory regions, PRRI and PRRII.
PRRI is an inducible proximal enhancer, located between nucleotides -276 and -244, which contains NF-kappaB and SRE/CArG motifs.
PRRII is a T-cell-specific enhancer, located between nucleotides -137 and -64, which binds the T-cell-specific Ets protein Elf-1 and HMG-I -LRB- Y -RRB- proteins.
However, none of these proximal regions account for the induction of IL-2R alpha transcription by IL-2.
To find new regulatory regions of the IL-2R alpha gene, 8.5 kb of the 5' end noncoding sequence of the IL-2R alpha gene have been sequenced.
We identified an 86-nucleotide fragment that is 90 % identical to the recently characterized murine IL-2-responsive element -LRB- mIL-2rE -RRB-.
PRRIII contains a Stat protein binding site that overlaps with an EBS motif -LRB- GASd/EBSd -RRB-.
These are essential for IL-2 inducibility of PRRIII/CAT reporter constructs.
IL-2 induced the binding of Stat5a and b proteins to the human GASd element.
To confirm the physiological relevance of these findings, we carried out in vivo footprinting experiments which showed that stimulation of IL-2R alpha expression correlated with occupancy of the GASd element.
Association of TRAF1, TRAF2, and TRAF3 with an Epstein-Barr virus LMP1 domain important for B-lymphocyte transformation : role in NF-kappaB activation.
We now show that in EBV-transformed B lymphocytes most of TRAF1 or TRAF3 and 5 % of TRAF2 are associated with LMP1 and that most of LMP1 is associated with TRAF1 or TRAF3.
TRAF1, TRAF2, and TRAF3 bind to a single site in the LMP1 CT corresponding to amino acids -LRB- aa -RRB- 199 to 214, within a domain which is important for B-lymphocyte growth transformation -LRB- aa 187 to 231 -RRB-.
Further deletional and alanine mutagenesis analyses and comparison with TRAF binding sequences in CD40, in CD30, and in the LMP1 of other lymphycryptoviruses provide the first evidence that PXQXT/S is a core TRAF binding motif.
The negative effects of point mutations in the LMP1 -LRB- 1-231 -RRB- core TRAF binding motif on TRAF binding and NF-kappaB activation genetically link the TRAFs to LMP1 -LRB- 1-231 -RRB- - mediated NF-kappaB activation.
TRAF3 is a negative modulator of LMP1 -LRB- 1-231 -RRB- - mediated NF-kappaB activation.
Surprisingly, TRAF1, -2, or -3 does not interact with the terminal LMP1 CT aa 333 to 386 which can independently mediate NF-kappaB activation.
The constitutive association of TRAFs with LMP1 through the aa 187 to 231 domain which is important in NF-kappaB activation and primary B-lymphocyte growth transformation implicates TRAF aggregation in LMP1 signaling.
Tissue and cell-type specific expression of the tuberous sclerosis gene, TSC2, in human tissues.
TSC2 is a gene on chromosome 16p13 .3 associated with the autosomal dominant neurocutaneous disorder, tuberous sclerosis complex -LRB- TSC -RRB-.
By using a partial nucleotide sequence from the cloned TSC2 and polymerase chain reaction methodology, we constructed a digoxigenin-labeled complementary DNA probe to examine TSC2 gene expression in autopsy - or biopsy-derived human tissues by in situ hybridization.
TSC2 messenger RNA was widely expressed in various cell types throughout the body, including epithelia, lymphocytes, and cells with endocrine functions, e.g., adrenal cortex and anterior pituitary.
It was prominently and selectively -LRB- within the central nervous system -RRB- expressed in pyramidal cells of the cerebral cortex and other motor neurons, e.g., in spinal cord and brainstem nuclei.
Visceral TSC2 expression was comparable in autopsy tissues from patients with and without TSC ;.
TSC2 messenger RNA expression was most prominent in cells with a rapid mitotic rate and turnover, e.g., epithelia and lymphocytes, with central nervous system pyramidal cells and other neurons being an obvious exception, and/or in cells with important secretory/transport functions.
Cell specific expression of human Bruton 's agammaglobulinemia tyrosine kinase gene -LRB- Btk -RRB- is regulated by Sp1 - and Spi-1 / PU.1-family members.
Bruton 's agammaglobulinemia tyrosine kinase -LRB- Btk -RRB- is a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase involved in the human disease X-linked agammaglobulinemia -LRB- XLA -RRB-.
The gene is expressed in all hematopoietic cells with the exception of T-cells and plasma cells.
In vitro footprinting analysis within this part of the promoter revealed two Sp1 binding sites as well as a PU-box.
The transcription factor Spi-1 / PU .1 as well as the closely related factor Spi-B bound to the PU-box in B-cells.
In the erythroleukemia cell line K562, due to the absence of Spi-B, only PU .1 bound to the Btk promoter.
Mutation of either site reduced the expression in transient transfection experiments.
However, mutation of the PU box had no effect in the T-cell line Jurkat, where none of the Spi-1 family members is expressed.
In addition Spi-B as well as PU .1 were able to transactivate Btk expression.
In fetal liver of PU .1 - / - mice, which lack lymphoid and myeloid cells, expression of Btk was reduced two - to threefold but not abolished.
Collectively this study shows that expression of the Btk gene is regulated by the combined action of Sp1 - and PU.1-family members.
The Oct-2 transcription factor.
The Oct-2 transcription factor is a member of the POU -LRB- Pit-Oct-Unc -RRB- family of transcription factors and is expressed only in B lymphocytes and in neuronal cells but not in other cell types.
The primary RNA transcript of the gene is subject to alternative splicing to yield different variants which can either activate or repress gene expression.
The forms produced in B lymphocytes have a predominantly activating effect on gene expression whereas those produced in neuronal cells have a predominantly inhibitory effect and can repress the expression of both the herpes simplex virus immediate-early genes and the cellular tyrosine hydroxylase gene.
Thus Oct-2 plays an important role in the regulation of cellular gene expression in both B cells and neuronal cells as well as in the control of viral latency.
Regulation of cytokine and cytokine receptor expression by glucocorticoids.
Glucocorticoids -LRB- GCS -RRB- profoundly inhibit several aspects of T cell immunity largely through inhibition of cytokine expression at the transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels.
GCS were also reported to act indirectly by inducing transforming growth factor-beta expression, which in turn blocks T cell immunity.
In contrast to their inhibitory effects on cytokine expression, GCS up-regulate cytokine receptor expression that correlates with enhanced cytokine effects on target cells.
In this review, we summarize the current state of knowledge of the mechanism of action of GCS, including the phenomenon of steroid-induced rebound, which ensues upon GCS withdrawal.
Prostaglandin E2 induction of binding activity to CRE and AP-2 elements in human T lymphocytes.
Prostaglandins of the E series are immunomodulatory agents which exert inhibitory as well as stimulatory effects on a variety of immune responses.
Using electrophoretic mobility shift assay, we demonstrated that a short treatment of human T lymphocytes with PGE2 induces specific binding activity to CRE and AP-2, but not AP-1, DNA elements.
More interestingly, transfection experiments with CRE-CAT plasmide show that PGE2 activates the transcription of a CRE-containing promoter.
These data support the positive role for PGE2 on some immune functions.
Cloning and expression of the Epstein-Barr virus-encoded dUTPase : patients with acute, reactivated or chronic virus infection develop antibodies against the enzyme.
The gene encoding the Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- - specific dUTPase was amplified from virus DNA by PCR.
The active enzyme was expressed in Escherichia coli and in insect cells as a non-fusion protein.
The protein from E. coli specifically converted dUTP to dUMP and did not react with other dNTPs or NTPs.
Preliminary experiments yielded a Km value of about 0.8 microM for dUTP.
The protein was found in untreated cells at low levels, whereas induction of the lytic replication cycle by TPA treatment or by providing the immediate early transactivator BZLF1 in trans resulted in increased expression.
We demonstrated that the virus dUTPase isolated from EBV-infected cells is a phosphoprotein.
The protein expressed in insect cells was used to test for the presence of specific antibodies in sera from normal, healthy carriers and from patients with various diseases.
While the sera of EBV-negative individuals -LRB- 0/3 -RRB- or healthy carriers -LRB- 0/33 -RRB- did not contain detectable levels of antibodies, patients with mononucleosis -LRB- 5/18 -RRB-, chronic EBV infection -LRB- 2/7 -RRB-, EBV reactivation -LRB- 7/20 -RRB- and human immunodeficiency virus infection -LRB- 5/24 -RRB- showed elevated antibody titres against the enzyme.
Signal transduction by DR3, a death domain-containing receptor related to TNFR-1 and CD95.
Tumor necrosis factor receptor-1 -LRB- TNFR-1 -RRB- and CD95 -LRB- also called Fas or APO-1 -RRB- are cytokine receptors that engage the apoptosis pathway through a region of intracellular homology, designated the `` death domain. ''.
Another death domain-containing member of the TNFR family, death receptor 3 -LRB- DR3 -RRB-, was identified and was shown to induce both apoptosis and activation of nuclear factor kappaB.
DR3 signal transduction is mediated by a complex of intracellular signaling molecules including TRADD, TRAF2, FADD, and FLICE.
Differential nuclear localization of p50, p52, and RelB proteins in human accessory cells of the immune response in situ.
The Rel/NF-kappa B proteins, p50, p52, p65, c-Rel, and RelB, constitute a family of transcription factors involved in the positive regulation of a variety of genes during the immune response.
Recently, it has been shown that RelB knockout mice have no dendritic cells -LRB- DC -RRB-.
An overexpression of p50 has been described in follicular dendritic cells -LRB- FDC -RRB-.
A constitutive NF-kappa B activity has been reported in mature macrophages.
This led to the hypothesis that some of the Rel/NF-kappa B proteins were key nuclear factors in functions of accessory cells of the immune response.
Therefore, we investigated in situ the nuclear localization of Rel/NF-kappa B proteins in accessory cells of the immune system by immunohistochemistry and double labeling by immunofluorescence from five normal human tonsils and five lymph nodes with follicular hyperplasia.
Nuclear p65 and c-Rel proteins were found in all cell types including lymphocytes.
In germinal centers GC, p50, p52, and RelB were found in the nuclei of FDC only and were not detected in the nuclei of CD68 + cells.
In T cell areas, p50, p52, and RelB were found in the nuclei of HLA-DR + cells with an antigen-presenting cell -LRB- APC -RRB- morphology.
p52 and RelB were detected in the nuclei in both CD1a + and CD68 + cells from the T cell area, whereas p50 was found only in CD68 - and CD1a - cells.
Cells with nuclear p50 were negative for the CD38, CD20 and CD2 markers.
These results show that, physiologically, high levels of nuclear of p50, p52 and RelB are restricted to accessory cells of the immune system, which include FDC in GC, and DC and macrophages in the T cell zone, that specialized scavenger macrophages from GC do not have detectable levels of p52 and RelB, whereas macrophages from the T cell area, known to present the antigen to T cells, do have both nuclear p52 and RelB, and that in the T cell zone, p52 and RelB are located in nuclei of both CD1a +, CD68 + or both, cells APC, whereas p50 is restricted to CD1a - and CD68 - APC.
T cell response to Epstein-Barr virus transactivators in chronic rheumatoid arthritis.
Rheumatoid arthritis is a multistep disorder associated with autoimmune features of yet unknown etiology.
Here we show that a large fraction of T cells infiltrating affected joints from a patient with chronic rheumatoid arthritis recognizes two EBV transactivators -LRB- BZLF1 and BMLF1 -RRB- in a major histocompatibility complex-restricted fashion.
Responses to these EBV antigens by synovial lymphocytes from several other chronic rheumatoid arthritis patients were readily detectable.
Generation of CD1 + RelB + dendritic cells and tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase-positive osteoclast-like multinucleated giant cells from human monocytes.
We previously showed that granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB- and macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- M-CSF -RRB- stimulate the differentiation of human monocytes into two phenotypically distinct types of macrophages.
However, in vivo, not only CSF but also many other cytokines are produced under various conditions.
In the present study, we showed that CD14 + adherent human monocytes can differentiate into CD1 + relB + dendritic cells -LRB- DC -RRB- by the combination of GM-CSF plus interleukin-4 -LRB- IL-4 -RRB- and that they differentiate into tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase -LRB- TRAP -RRB- - positive osteoclast-like multinucleated giant cells -LRB- MGC -RRB- by the combination of M-CSF plus IL-4.
However, the monocyte-derived DC were not terminally differentiated cells ;.
they could still convert to macrophages in response to M-CSF.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- stimulated the terminal differentiation of the DC by downregulating the expression of the M-CSF receptor, cfms mRNA, and aborting the potential to convert to macrophages.
In contrast to IL-4, interferon-gamma -LRB- IFN-gamma -RRB- had no demonstrable effect on the differentiation of monocytes.
Rather, IFN-gamma antagonized the effect of IL-4 and suppressed the DC and MGC formation induced by GM-CSF + IL-4 and M-CSF + IL-4, respectively.
Taken together, these results provide a new aspect to our knowledge of monocyte differentiation and provide evidence that human monocytes are flexible in their differentiation potential and are precursors not only of macrophages but also of CD1 + relB + DC and TRAP-positive MGC.
Interferon augments PML and PML/RAR alpha expression in normal myeloid and acute promyelocytic cells and cooperates with all-trans retinoic acid to induce maturation of a retinoid-resistant promyelocytic cell line.
The PML gene is fused to the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene -LRB- RAR alpha -RRB- in the acute promyelocytic leukemia -LRB- APL -RRB- 15 ; 17 translocation.
PML is expressed in diverse tissues and cell lines and localized in the nucleus with a typical speckled pattern.
In the bone marrow, it is preferentially expressed in myeloid cells.
Similarly, interferons could act on APL cells, alone or in combination with all-trans retinoic acid -LRB- RA -RRB-, especially if the PML/RAR alpha fusion transcript that results from the t -LRB- 15 ; 17 -RRB- is induced by interferon.
We report here that PML is expressed at low levels or not expressed in normal circulating human monocytes, lymphocytes, and polymorphonucleate cells, but is markedly induced by interferon ; that PML and PML/RAR alpha expression is augmented by interferon in the NB4 APL cell line, which carries the t -LRB- 15 ; 17 -RRB-, and in APL blasts from patients ; that interferon inhibits growth and survival of NB4 APL cells in cooperation with RA ; that interferons alone have minimal maturation effect on NB4 cells ; and, finally, that interferon gamma, but not alpha or beta, induces maturation and growth suppression of NB4 cells with de novo retinoid resistance, and partially restores RA response.
Potent gene regulatory and antiproliferative activities of 20-methyl analogues of 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D3.
The biological active form of vitamin D3, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 -LRB- VD -RRB-, regulates cellular growth and differentiation.
This provides the hormone with an interesting therapeutic potential.
However, hypercalcemia is a side effect, which is caused by VD 's classical action, the regulation of calcium homeostasis.
This made the need for VD analogues with selectively increased cell regulatory properties.
Studies with 20-epi analogues pointed out the importance of the carbon-20 position and led to the development of 20-methyl derivatives of VD.
In this report the biological properties of the compounds ZK161422 and ZK157202, which are 20-methyl - and 20-methyl-23-eneanalogues, respectively, have been analyzed in comparison with VD.
Both compounds show about 2-fold lower affinity to the VD receptor -LRB- VDR -RRB- than VD.
However, compared to VD, their antiproliferative effect is up to 30-fold higher on human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and even up to 300-fold higher on human breast cancer MCF-7 cells.
Whereas the hypercalcemic effect for ZK157202 is also increased 10-fold, ZK161422 has the same calcium-mobilizing potency as VD.
Moreover, ZK161422, but not ZK157202, showed preference for gene activation from a promoter carrying a VD response element with a palindromic arrangement of two hexameric receptor binding sites spaced by 9 nucleotides -LRB- IP9 -RRB- rather than for activation from a response element formed by a direct repeat spaced by 3 nucleotides -LRB- DR3 -RRB-.
This observation supports a model, in which promoter selectivity reflects the selectively increased antiproliferative effect of VD analogues.
Naive -LRB- CD45RA + -RRB- T lymphocytes are more sensitive to oxidative stress-induced signals than memory -LRB- CD45RO + -RRB- cells.
Formation of reactive oxygen intermediates -LRB- ROI -RRB- after oxidative stress has been shown to be an activation signal for T lymphocytes, e.g., expression of IL-2 and its receptor are induced.
These ROI-induced effects can, to a large extent, be attributed to the activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB.
When CD45RA + -LRB- naive -RRB- and CD45RO + -LRB- memory -RRB- T lymphocytes were directly stimulated with H2O2, NF-kappaB nuclear translocation was stronger in naive cells than in memory cells and it could be induced with lower doses.
The composition of the induced nuclear NF-kappaB -LRB- levels of p50 and RelA proteins -RRB- was similar in these cell types.
in CD45RA + cells, H2O2 caused a more profound depression in the levels of IkappaB alpha.
T-cell-directed TAL-1 expression induces T-cell malignancies in transgenic mice.
The TAL-1 gene specifies for a basic domain-helix-loop-helix protein, which is involved in the control of normal hematopoiesis.
In human pathology, the TAL-1 gene product is expressed in a high percentage of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias in the pediatric age range ;.
In this report, we describe the phenotype of mouse transgenic lines obtained by inducing tal-1 protein expression in lymphoid tissues using the LCK promoter.
The survival rate of tal-1 transgenic animals was much lower as compared with control mice.
Histopathological analysis revealed lymphomas of T-cell type, often comprising a minor B-cell component.
Some mice showed marked splenic lymphocyte depletion.
Primary lymphocyte cultures showed partial independence from exogenous growth stimuli and increased resistance to low-serum apoptosis.
To further unravel the tal-1 oncogenic potential, a strain of tal-1 transgenic mice was crossbred with p53 - / - mice ;.
the survival rate in these animals was reduced by more than one-half when compared with that of tal-1 mice, and histopathological analysis revealed exclusively T-cell lymphomas.
Identification and characterization of a leukocyte-specific component of the nuclear body.
The nuclear body -LRB- NB -RRB- is a cellular organelle that is involved in the pathogenesis of acute promyelocytic leukemia and viral infection.
The NB is also a target of antibodies in the serum of patients with the autoimmune disease primary biliary cirrhosis.
In this study, serum from a patient with primary biliary cirrhosis was used to identify a cDNA encoding a novel component of the NB, a 140-kDa protein designated Sp140.
The predicted amino acid sequence of the amino-terminal portion of Sp140 was similar to Sp100, a previously identified NB protein.
The carboxyl portion of Sp140 contained a zinc-finger domain and a bromodomain, motifs that are present in proteins regulating gene transcription.
High levels of Sp140 mRNA were detected in human spleen and peripheral blood leukocytes, but not other human tissues.
The level of SP140 mRNA in myeloid precursor cell lines HL60 and NB4 markedly increased in response to chemically induced cellular differentiation.
Immunohistochemical techniques were used to demonstrate that SP140 localized to the NB in differentiated HL60 and NB4 cells.
Stat3 recruitment by two distinct ligand-induced, tyrosine-phosphorylated docking sites in the interleukin-10 receptor intracellular domain.
Recent work has shown that IL-10 induces activation of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway.
To define the mechanism underlying signal transducer and activator of transcription -LRB- STAT -RRB- protein recruitment to the interleukin 10 -LRB- IL-10 -RRB- receptor, the STAT proteins activated by IL-10 in different cell populations were first defined using electrophoretic mobility shift assays.
In all cells tested, IL-10 activated Stat1 and Stat3 and induced the formation of three distinct DNA binding complexes that contained different combinations of these two transcription factors.
IL-10 also activated Stat5 in Ba/F3 cells that stably expressed the murine IL-10 receptor.
Using a structure-function mutagenesis approach, two tyrosine residues -LRB- Tyr427 and Tyr477 -RRB- in the intracellular domain of the murine IL-10 receptor were found to be redundantly required for receptor function and for activation of Stat3 but not for Stat1 or Stat5.
Twelve amino acid peptides encompassing either of these two tyrosine residues in phosphorylated form coprecipitated Stat3 but not Stat1 and blocked IL-10-induced Stat3 phosphorylation in a cell-free system.
In contrast, tyrosine-phosphorylated peptides containing Tyr374 or Tyr396 did not interact with Stat3 or block Stat3 activation.
These data demonstrate that Stat3 but not Stat1 or Stat5 is directly recruited to the ligand-activated IL-10 receptor by binding to specific but redundant receptor intracellular domain sequences containing phosphotyrosine.
This study thus supports the concept that utilization of distinct STAT proteins by different cytokine receptors is dependent on the expression of particular ligand-activatable, tyrosine-containing STAT docking sites in receptor intracellular domains.
Characterization of a CD43/leukosialin-mediated pathway for inducing apoptosis in human T-lymphoblastoid cells.
The monoclonal antibody -LRB- mAb -RRB- J393 induces apoptosis in Jurkat T-cells.
NH2-terminal amino acid sequence analysis identified the 140-kDa surface antigen for mAb J393 as CD43/leukosialin, the major sialoglycoprotein of leukocytes.
While Jurkat cells co-expressed two discrete cell-surface isoforms of CD43, recognized by mAb J393 and mAb G10-2, respectively, only J393/CD43 signaled apoptosis.
J393/CD43 was found to be hyposialylated, bearing predominantly O-linked monosaccharide glycans, whereas G10-2 / CD43 bore complex sialylated tetra - and hexasaccharide chains.
Treatment with soluble, bivalent mAb J393 killed 25-50 % of the cell population, while concomitant engagement of either the CD3.TcR complex or the integrins CD18 and CD29 significantly potentiated this effect.
Treatment of Jurkat cells with mAb J393 induced tyrosine phosphorylation of specific protein substrates that underwent hyperphosphorylation upon antigen receptor costimulation.
Tyrosine kinase inhibition by herbimycin A diminished J393/CD43-mediated apoptosis, whereas inhibition of phosphotyrosine phosphatase activity by bis -LRB- maltolato -RRB- oxovanadium-IV enhanced cell death.
Since peripheral blood T-lymphocytes express cryptic epitopes for mAb J393, these findings demonstrate the existence of a tightly regulated CD43-mediated pathway for inducing apoptosis in human T-cell lineages.
Lack of IL-12 signaling in human allergen-specific Th2 cells.
IL-12 is a powerful skewer of CD4 + T cell responses toward the Th1 phenotype by inducing IFN-gamma production in naive Th cells.
To this aim, allergen-specific CD4 + T cell clones -LRB- TCC -RRB- were generated from the peripheral blood of three atopic patients, and their cytokine profiles were analyzed.
The majority of these TCC exhibited a strongly polarized Th2 cytokine profile, and the production of IFN-gamma could not be induced by exogenous IL-12.
Only those TCC with low IFN-gamma levels in the absence of IL-12 responded to IL-12 by additional enhancement of IFN-gamma production.
The IL-12 nonresponsiveness of the Th2 clones was further evident by the total lack of IL-12-induced phosphorylation of STAT4 -LRB- signal transducer and activator of transcription-4 -RRB-, a transcription factor that is typically involved in IL-12 signaling.
Consequently, IL-12 also failed to induce the DNA-binding activity of STAT4-containing complexes in the nuclei of these Th2 clones.
All TCC expressed equal levels of the low-affinity IL-12R beta1 subunit.
AML and Ets proteins regulate the I alpha1 germ-line promoter.
The immunoglobulin heavy chain -LRB- IgH -RRB- class switch recombination of B lymphocytes preferentially targets unrearranged IgH genes that have already been rendered transcriptionally active.
Transcription of the germ-line IgH genes is controlled by intervening -LRB- I -RRB- regions upstream of their switch regions.
The I alpha1 promoter activates transcription of the human germ-line C alpha1 gene for IgA1 and mediates the transforming growth factor -LRB- TGF -RRB- - beta1 responsiveness of this locus.
Here we show that the I alpha1 promoter contains several binding sites for the AML/PEBP2/CBF family of transcription factors and that AML and Ets proteins are major regulators of the basal and TGF-beta-inducible promoter activity.
Our data constitute a starting point for studies to elucidate the molecular mechanism by which TGF-beta regulates IgA production.
Peripheral blood mononuclear cells isolated from patients with diabetic nephropathy show increased activation of the oxidative-stress sensitive transcription factor NF-kappaB.
Increased oxidative stress and subsequent activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB has been linked to the development of late diabetic complications.
We examined 33 patients with diabetes mellitus -LRB- Type I and Type II -RRB-.
Patients with diabetic nephropathy showed higher NF-kappaB binding activity in Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assays and stronger immunohistological staining for activated NF-kappaBp65 than patients without renal complications.
NF-kappaB binding activity correlated with the degree of albuminuria -LRB- r = 0.316 -RRB- and with thrombomodulin plasma concentrations -LRB- r = 0.33 -RRB-, indicative for albuminuria associated endothelial dysfunction.
In a 3 day intervention study in which 600 mg of the antioxidant thioctic acid -LRB- alpha-lipoic acid -RRB- per day were given to nine patients with diabetic nephropathy oxidative stress in plasma samples was decreased by 48 % and NF-kappaB binding activity in ex vivo isolated peripheral blood mononuclear cells by 38 %.
In conclusion, activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB in ex vivo isolated peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with diabetes mellitus correlates with the degree of diabetic nephropathy.
NF-kappaB activation is at least in part dependent on oxidative stress since thioctic acid -LRB- alpha-lipoic acid -RRB- reduced NF-kappaB binding activity.
Activation of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 expression by Gardnerella vaginalis.
Bacterial vaginosis -LRB- BV -RRB- is associated with an increased rate of sexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- type 1, and Gardnerella vaginalis is frequently isolated from the genital tracts of women with BV.
G. vaginalis lysates were found to significantly stimulate HIV expression in monocytoid cells.
Stimulation was significantly higher when lysates were heated at 100 degrees C for 5 min but was reduced by treatment with lysozyme or protease.
G. vaginalis lysates also activated HIV expression in certain T cell lines.
Interferon-alpha activates multiple STAT proteins and upregulates proliferation-associated IL-2Ralpha, c-myc, and pim-1 genes in human T cells.
Interferon-alpha -LRB- IFN-alpha -RRB- is a pleiotropic cytokine that has antiviral, antiproliferative, and immunoregulatory functions.
We have analyzed the expression of IL-2Ralpha, c-myc, and pim-1 genes in anti-CD3-activated human T lymphocytes.
The induction of these genes is associated with interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- - induced T-cell proliferation.
Treatment of T lymphocytes with IFN-alpha, IL-2, IL-12, and IL-15 upregulated IL-2Ralpha, c-myc, and pim-1 gene expression.
When we analyzed the nature of STAT proteins capable of binding to IL-2Ralpha, pim-1, and IRF-1 GAS elements after cytokine stimulation, we observed IFN-alpha-induced binding of STAT1, STAT3, and STAT4, but not STAT5 to all of these elements.
Yet, IFN-alpha was able to activate binding of STAT5 to the high-affinity IFP53 GAS site.
IFN-alpha enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT1, STAT3, STAT4, STAT5a, and STAT5b.
IL-12 induced STAT4 and IL-2 and IL-15 induced STAT5 binding to the GAS elements.
These findings thus emphasize the importance of IFN-alpha as a T-cell regulatory cytokine.
Interleukin-10 inhibits expression of both interferon alpha - and interferon gamma - induced genes by suppressing tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT1.
Interleukin-10 -LRB- IL-10 -RRB- helps maintain polarized T-helper cells in a T-helper lymphocyte 2 -LRB- Th2 -RRB- phenotype.
Part of this process involves the prevention of the development of Th1 cells, which are a primary source of interferon gamma -LRB- IFNgamma -RRB-, a potent activator of monocytes and an inhibitor of Th2 proliferation.
Highly purified monocytes were incubated with IL-10 for 60 to 90 minutes before the addition of IFNgamma or IFNalpha.
IL-10 preincubation resulted in the inhibition of gene expression for several IFN-induced genes, such as IP-10, ISG54, and intercellular adhesion molecule-1.
The reduction in gene expression resulted from the ability of IL-10 to suppress IFN-induced assembly of signal transducer and activator of transcription -LRB- STAT -RRB- factors to specific promoter motifs on IFNalpha - and IFNgamma-inducible genes.
This was accomplished by preventing the IFN-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT1, a component of both IFNalpha - and IFNgamma-induced DNA binding complexes.
Therefore, IL-10 can directly inhibit STAT-dependent early response gene expression induced by both IFNalpha and IFNgamma in monocytes by suppressing the tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT1.
The Megakaryocyte/Platelet-specific enhancer of the alpha2beta1 integrin gene : two tandem AP1 sites and the mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling cascade.
The alpha2beta1 integrin, a collagen receptor on platelets and megakaryocytes, is required for normal platelet function.
Transcriptional regulation of the alpha2 integrin gene in cells undergoing megakaryocytic differentiation requires a core promoter between bp -30 and -92, a silencer between bp -92 and -351, and megakaryocytic enhancers in the distal 5' flank.
We have now identified a 229-bp region of the distal 5' flank of the alpha2 integrin gene required for high-level enhancer activity in cells with megakaryocytic features.
Two tandem AP1 binding sites with dyad symmetry are required for enhancer activity and for DNA-protein complex formation with members of the c-fos/c-jun family.
Inhibition of the MAP kinase cascade with PD98059, a specific inhibitor of MAPK kinase 1, prevented the expression of the alpha2 integrin subunit in cells induced to become megakaryocytic.
We provide a model of megakaryocytic differentiation in which expression of the alpha2 integrin gene requires signaling via the MAP kinase pathway to activate two tandem AP1 binding sites in the alpha2 integrin enhancer.
Differential expression and phosphorylation of CTCF, a c-myc transcriptional regulator, during differentiation of human myeloid cells.
CTCF is a transcriptional repressor of the c-myc gene.
Although CTCF has been characterized in some detail, there is very little information about the regulation of CTCF activity.
Therefore we investigated CTCF expression and phosphorylation during induced differentiation of human myeloid leukemia cells.
We found that : -LRB- i -RRB- both CTCF mRNA and protein are down-regulated during terminal differentiation in most cell lines tested ; -LRB- ii -RRB- CTCF down-regulation is retarded and less pronounced than that of c-myc ; -LRB- iii -RRB- CTCF protein is differentially phosphorylated and the phosphorylation profiles depend on the differentiation pathway.
We concluded that CTCF expression and activity is controlled at transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels.
T-cell expression of the human GATA-3 gene is regulated by a non-lineage-specific silencer.
The GATA-3 transcription factor is required for development of the T-cell lineage and Th2 cytokine gene expression in CD4 T-cells.
We have mapped the DNase-I-hypersensitive -LRB- HS -RRB- regions of the human GATA-3 gene in T-cells and non-T-cells and studied their transcriptional activities.
HS I-III, located 5' from the transcriptional initiation site, were found in hematopoietic and non-hematopoietic cells, whereas HS IV-VII, located 3' from the transcriptional start site, were exclusively observed in T-cells.
Among these hypersensitive sites, two transcriptional control elements were found, one in the first intron of the GATA-3 gene and the other between 8.3 and 5.9 kilobases 5' from the GATA-3 transcriptional initiation site.
The first intron acted as a strong transcriptional activator in a position-dependent manner and with no cell-type specificity.
The upstream regulatory element could confer T-cell specificity to the GATA-3 promoter activity, and analysis of this region revealed a 707-base pair silencer that drastically inhibited GATA-3 promoter activity in non-T-cells.
Two CAGGTG E-boxes, located at the 5' - and 3' - ends of the silencer, were necessary for this silencer activity.
The 3' - CAGGTG E-box could bind USF proteins, the ubiquitous repressor ZEB, or the basic helix-loop-helix proteins E2A and HEB, and we showed that a competition between ZEB and E2A/HEB proteins is involved in the silencer activity.
Lack of T-cell-mediated recognition of the fusion region of the pml/RAR-alpha hybrid protein by lymphocytes of acute promyelocytic leukemia patients.
In previous studies, it was shown that the fusion region of the pml/RAR-alpha protein, expressed by acute promyelocytic leukemia -LRB- APL -RRB- cells, can be specifically recognized in vitro by donor -LRB- D. E. -RRB- CD4 T cells in a HLA class II DR11-restricted fashion.
We present here the results on the recognition of several pml/RAR-alpha peptides by APL patients expressing HLA DR11.
The in vitro immunization of peripheral blood lymphocytes from four patients in remission -LRB- S. R., F. R., M. M., P. G. -RRB- with BCR1/25, a 25-mer pml/RAR-alpha, did not elicit either a polyclonal or a clonal immune response specific to the peptide.
We then generated new donor anti-pml/RAR-alpha CD4 -LRB- + -RRB- T-cell clones.
These clones were tested for their recognition of BCR1/25.
One clone -LRB- C3/5, CD3 -LRB- + -RRB-, CD4 -LRB- + -RRB-, CD8 -LRB- - -RRB- -RRB- was selected for further analysis.
Clone C3/5 showed specific proliferation, cytotoxicity, and cytokine -LRB- tumor necrosis factor alpha, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -RRB- production when challenged with autologous lymphoblastic cell lines pulsed with peptide BCR1/25.
C3/5 cells developed specific proliferation and cytotoxicity when challenged with peptide-pulsed lymphoblastic cell lines and peripheral blood lymphocytes from the four DR11 -LRB- + -RRB- APL patients.
APL blasts, available only from patients F. R. and P. G., were not lysed by C3/5 and were unable to present peptide BCR1/25.
Incubation of APL cells with IFN-gamma failed to induce HLA class II molecules and recognition by the C3/5 clone.
No peptide-specific T-cell line or clone could be generated from both donors and patients.
Reactive oxygen intermediate-dependent NF-kappaB activation by interleukin-1beta requires 5-lipoxygenase or NADPH oxidase activity.
We previously reported that the role of reactive oxygen intermediates -LRB- ROIs -RRB- in NF-kappaB activation by proinflammatory cytokines was cell specific.
5-LOX and 5-LOX activating protein -LRB- FLAP -RRB- are coexpressed in lymphoid cells but not in monocytic or epithelial cells.
Stimulation of lymphoid cells with interleukin-1beta -LRB- IL-1beta -RRB- led to ROI production and NF-kappaB activation, which could both be blocked by antioxidants or FLAP inhibitors, confirming that 5-LOX was the source of ROIs and was required for NF-kappaB activation in these cells.
IL-1beta stimulation of epithelial cells did not generate any ROIs and NF-kappaB induction was not influenced by 5-LOX inhibitors.
However, reintroduction of a functional 5-LOX system in these cells allowed ROI production and 5-LOX-dependent NF-kappaB activation.
In monocytic cells, IL-1beta treatment led to a production of ROIs which is independent of the 5-LOX enzyme but requires the NADPH oxidase activity.
This pathway involves the Rac1 and Cdc42 GTPases, two enzymes which are not required for NF-kappaB activation by IL-1beta in epithelial cells.
In conclusion, three different cell-specific pathways lead to NF-kappaB activation by IL-1beta : a pathway dependent on ROI production by 5-LOX in lymphoid cells, an ROI - and 5-LOX-independent pathway in epithelial cells, and a pathway requiring ROI production by NADPH oxidase in monocytic cells.
Activation-dependent transcriptional regulation of the human Fas promoter requires NF-kappaB p50-p65 recruitment.
Fas -LRB- CD95 -RRB- and Fas ligand -LRB- CD95L -RRB- are an interacting receptor-ligand pair required for immune homeostasis.
Lymphocyte activation results in the upregulation of Fas expression and the acquisition of sensitivity to FasL-mediated apoptosis.
Although Fas upregulation is central to the preservation of immunologic tolerance, little is known about the molecular machinery underlying this process.
To investigate the events involved in activation-induced Fas upregulation, we have examined mRNA accumulation, fas promoter activity, and protein expression in the Jurkat T-cell line treated with phorbol myristate acetate and ionomycin -LRB- P/I -RRB-, pharmacological mimics of T-cell receptor activation.
Although resting Jurkat cells express Fas, Fas mRNA was induced approximately 10-fold in 2 h upon P/I stimulation.
Using sequential deletion mutants of the human fas promoter in transient transfection assays, we identified a 47-bp sequence -LRB- positions -306 to -260 relative to the ATG -RRB- required for activation-driven fas upregulation.
Sequence analysis revealed the presence of a previously unrecognized composite binding site for both the Sp1 and NF-kappaB transcription factors at positions -295 to -286.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assay -LRB- EMSA -RRB- and supershift analyses of this region documented constitutive binding of Sp1 in unactivated nuclear extracts and inducible binding of p50-p65 NF-kappaB heterodimers after P/I activation.
Sp1 and NF-kappaB transcription factor binding was shown to be mutually exclusive by EMSA displacement studies with purified recombinant Sp1 and recombinant p50.
The functional contribution of the kappaB-Sp1 composite site in P/I-inducible fas promoter activation was verified by using kappaB-Sp1 concatamers -LRB- -295 to -286 -RRB- in a thymidine kinase promoter-driven reporter construct and native promoter constructs in Jurkat cells overexpressing IkappaB-alpha.
Site-directed mutagenesis of the critical guanine nucleotides in the kappaB-Sp1 element documented the essential role of this site in activation-dependent fas promoter induction.
RFLAT-1 : a new zinc finger transcription factor that activates RANTES gene expression in T lymphocytes.
RANTES -LRB- Regulated upon Activation, Normal T cell Expressed and Secreted -RRB- is a chemoattractant cytokine -LRB- chemokine -RRB- important in the generation of inflammatory infiltrate and human immunodeficiency virus entry into immune cells.
RANTES is expressed late -LRB- 3-5 days -RRB- after activation in T lymphocytes.
Using expression cloning, we identified the first `` late '' T lymphocyte associated transcription factor and named it `` RANTES Factor of Late Activated T Lymphocytes-1 '' -LRB- RFLAT-1 -RRB-.
RFLAT-1 is a novel, phosphorylated, zinc finger transcription factor that is expressed in T cells 3 days after activation, coincident with RANTES expression.
While Rel proteins play the dominant role in RANTES gene expression in fibroblasts, RFLAT-1 is a strong transactivator for RANTES in T cells.
Expression of erythroid-specific genes in megakaryoblastic disorders.
Acute megakaryoblastic leukemia -LRB- AML-M7 -RRB- and transient myeloproliferative disorder in Down 's syndrome -LRB- TMD -RRB- are characterized by rapid growth of abnormal blast cells which express megakaryocytic markers.
Nuclear NF-ATp is a hallmark of unstimulated B cells from B-CLL patients.
B lymphocytes from the peripheral blood of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia -LRB- CLL -RRB- were analysed for the nuclear presence and DNA binding of a panel of transcription factors which are involved in the gene control of lymphoid cells.
The following transcription factors were studied : the Octamer factors Oct-1 and Oct-2, members of the AP-1 factor family, NF-AT factors, in particular NF-ATp, and members of the Rel/NF-kB family.
We show that the constitutive nuclear translocation of NF-ATp, a member of the growing family of NF-AT factors, is a hallmark of nonstimulated B cells from CLL patients that distinguishes B-CLL cells from ` normal' B lymphocytes.
Constitutive nuclear appearance was also observed for NF-kB2 / p52.
Constitutive binding of further factor proteins to DNA, such as JunD, c-Fos and FosB, was detected in several patients whereas the localisation and DNA binding of other factors such as c-Jun, RelA/p65 and c-Rel was unaltered.
It is remarkable that in B-CLL cells the nuclear appearance and DNA binding of specific transcription factors is dramatically affected whereas other members of the same factor family remained unaltered in these leukemic cells.
It remains to be shown which molecular events lead to the specific ` pre-activation', i.e. constitutive nuclear translocation and DNA binding, of these members of NF-AT, NF-kB and AP-1 factor families.
-LSB- The value of the clinical test of glucocorticoid receptors of peripheral blood leukocytes in patients with chronic pulmonary heart disease -RSB-.
In order to inquire into the functional state of adrenal cortex in patients with pulmonary heart disease, the number of glucocorticoid receptors -LRB- GCR -RRB- of peripheral blood leukocytes in patients with chronic pulmonary heart disease was determined with radioligand-binding assay and the corresponding plasma cortisol levels were assessed with radioimmune assays.
The results showed that the number of GCR in the patients was significantly reduced -LRB- P < 0.01 -RRB- and it was increased when their health state was improved.
However, it was still lower than that in healthy subjects -LRB- P < 0.01 -RRB-.
The number of GCR in the patients was greatly increased when these patients were treated with oxygen -LRB- P < 0.01 -RRB-.
No difference in plasma cortisol was found between the patients and the healthy subjects -LRB- P > 0.05 -RRB-.
Therefore oxygen therapy is helpful in raising the activity of glucocorticoid receptors and controlling the development of the disease.
Inhibition of nuclear factor kappa B subunit p65 mRNA accumulation in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated human monocytic cells treated with sodium salicylate.
Lipopolysaccharide is one of the most potent trigger substances for monocytes and macrophages causing secretion of inflammatory mediators such as tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-1.
The nature of the nuclear factors involved in regulation of these cytokine genes is still unknown.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as salicylates have been used to treat symptoms of inflammation, and a new mechanism of drug action was suggested recently.
Salicylates have been shown to inhibit lipopolysaccharide-induced gene transcription via inhibition of NF-kappa B activation by preventing the degradation of NF-kappa B inhibitor `` I kappa B '', blocking the translocation of NF-kappa B into the nuclear compartment.
However, the nature of the subunit involved in this mechanism has not been defined.
To examine the mechanisms by which salicylates affect cytokine gene transcription, the amount of active and inactive NF-kappa B and NF-kappa B mRNA, in Porphyromonas gingivalis lipopolysaccharide-stimulated human monocytic cells was assessed.
High doses of sodium salicylate suppressed NF-kappa B p65 mRNA accumulation, resulting in suppression of total NF-kappa B, p50 on tissue oligonucleotide had no effects on lipopolysaccharide-induced NF-kappa B activation.
The data demonstrate that the p65 subunit of NF-kappa B is inhibited by salicylate treatment and highlight the role of salicylate in the control of gene expression of inflammatory mediators.
Pancreatic development and maturation of the islet B cell.
Studies of pluripotent islet cultures.
Pancreas organogenesis is a highly regulated process, in which two anlage evaginate from the primitive gut.
They later fuse, and, under the influence of the surrounding mesenchyme, the mature organ develops, being mainly composed of ductal, exocrine and endocrine compartments.
Early buds are characterized by a branching morphogenesis of the ductal epithelium from which endocrine and exocrine precursor cells bud to eventually form the two other compartments.
During recent years, studies of insulin-gene regulation and, in particular, the tissue-specific transcriptional control of insulin-gene activity have provided information on pancreas development in general.
The present review summarizes these findings, with a special focus on our own studies on pluripotent endocrine cultures of rat pancreas.
Identification of Bcd, a novel proto-oncogene expressed in B-cells.
A novel B-cell derived -LRB- Bcd -RRB- oncogene has been isolated from the peripheral blood lymphocytes of one B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia -LRB- B-CLL -RRB- patient using DNA transfer and a mouse tumorigenicity assay.
The Bcd proto-oncogene was activated by a truncation in the 5' UTR.
It predicts for two open reading frames -LRB- ORFs -RRB-.
ORF1 consists of 240 bp that would encode 80 amino acids, while the major ORF2 consists of 648 bp capable of coding for 216 amino acids.
Predicted peptide sequence of ORF2 contained a zinc finger domain which showed significant homology to GC box binding proteins BTEB2 and SP1.
Transfection of an expression vector containing ORF2 but not full length cDNA was able to transform NIH3T3 cells and induce tumors in nude mice.
Bcd mRNA transcripts of < or = 2.6 kb were selectively expressed in PBL and testis of healthy individuals.
Within the PBL, Bcd gene expression was restricted to CD19 + B-cells and absent from CD14 + monocytes and T-cells.
Bcd transcripts were detected in all normal PBL samples tested but not in several malignant human B-cell lines and not in 50 % of B-cells from B-CLL patients.
However, stimulation of B-cells from B-CLL patients under conditions which induced differentiation into plasma cells was associated with induction of Bcd gene expression.
The NF-kappa B inhibitor, tepoxalin, suppresses surface expression of the cell adhesion molecules CD62E, CD11b/CD18 and CD106.
Tepoxalin, a dual enzyme inhibitor of cyclooxygenase and 5-lipoxygenase has been shown to inhibit T-cell activation.
Its immunosuppressive property is distinct from cyclosporin because only tepoxalin, but not cyclosporin, suppresses NF-kappa B activation.
Here we report that tepoxalin selectively inhibits intercellular adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- ICAM-1, CD54 -RRB- / MAC-1 -LRB- CD11b/CD18 -RRB- dependent adhesion of polymorphonuclear cells to IL-1 activated human umbilical vein endothelial cells.
The mechanism of inhibition is related to the surface expression of several cell adhesion molecules.
Flow cytometry analyses on cultured cells that were treated with tepoxalin or antisense oligonucleotides to the P65/p50 subunit of NF-kappa B, and then stimulated with PMA, revealed a reduced expression of CD11b/CD18 on monocytic HL60 cells, and endothelial adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- CD62E -RRB- and vascular adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- CD106 -RRB- on human umbilical vein endothelial cells.
Expression of other adhesion molecules such as lymphocyte function associated-antigen-1 -LRB- CD11a/CD18 -RRB- and CD54 were unaffected.
Tepoxalin also inhibited the secretion of a NF-kappa B regulated chemokine, IL-8, a known inducer of CD11b/CD18 expression.
Induction of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 by low-density lipoprotein.
Low-density lipoprotein -LRB- LDL -RRB- is a well-established risk factor for atherosclerosis.
When endothelial cells are incubated with this lipoprotein in pathophysiologic amounts, the cells are activated.
The findings presented here link an atheogenic lipoprotein, LDL, with the induction of an adhesion molecule important in atherogenesis.
Human LDL induces the vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- VCAM-1 -RRB- transcriptionally with an increase in mRNA levels through activation of the VCAM promoter.
This effect is blocked by anti-VCAM antibodies.
In contrast, the binding activities of AP-1 and GATA, on the other hand, are increased by LDL.
Stimulation of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells by zinc and related cations.
Zinc is an important trace element for immune function.
Here, we show that zinc addition in a serum - and lipopolysaccharide-free cell culture system leads to significantly enhanced levels of interleukin 1 beta -LRB- IL-1 beta -RRB- and tumour necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- and to expression of the corresponding mRNA in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells -LRB- PBMC -RRB-.
Structurally related divalent cations like cobalt, nickel, and mercury also partially increase monokine secretion but to a much lower and thus insignificant extent.
They fail to induce mRNA of TNF-alpha after 3 h of culture.
Therefore, monokine induction is a zinc-specific effect influenced by the physicochemical properties of the ion.
Confirmation of the unique significance of zinc for immune function provides a better understanding of the mechanisms of specific zinc-mediated immune modulation.
-LSB- Molecular mechanisms of age-related lymphocyte dysfunction -RSB-.
Aging is classically accompanied by a dysregulation of the immunologic machinery.
The current understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying immunosenescence is still fragmentary.
The most extensively studied phenomenon is the progressive decline in the proliferative capacities of T lymphocytes with aging.
The loss of proliferative potential in response to antigenic challenge is a characteristic feature of immune senescence.
It is directly implicated in the emergence of the age-related immune deficiency.
The purpose of this review is to show how the accumulation of various biochemical lesions with advancing age leads to the failure of a critical cell function, namely the activation-induced lymphocyte proliferation.
The biochemical modifications responsible for the defect in transduction and execution of the proliferative signal are analyzed as a function of age.
Signaling via IL-2 and IL-4 in JAK3-deficient severe combined immunodeficiency lymphocytes : JAK3-dependent and independent pathways.
Both IL-2 and IL-4 bind to receptors containing the common gamma chain and JAK3.
Although JAK3 is required for proper lymphoid development, the precise roles of this kinase in IL-2 and IL-4 signaling in lymphocytes have not been defined.
Here, we have studied IL-2 and IL-4 signaling in B cell lines lacking JAK3.
Although IL-2-induced phosphorylation of IL-2R beta, JAK1, and STAT5 all required the presence of JAK3, IL-4-mediated phosphorylation of JAK1, STAT6, and insulin receptor substrates 1 and 2 did not.
However, IL-4-induced effects were clearly improved following JAK3 expression.
Sequence analysis and expression in cultured lymphocytes of the human FOSB gene -LRB- G0S3 -RRB-.
The sequence shows high homology with the murine FOSB gene, which encodes a component of the AP1 transcriptional regulator.
Comparison of cDNA and genomic sequences reveals a 4-exon structure characteristic of the FOS family of genes.
Freshly isolated cells show high levels of FOSB/G0S3 and FOS/G0S7 mRNAs, which decline rapidly during incubation in culture medium.
In cells preincubated for a day, levels of FOS mRNA reach a maximum 20 min after the addition of lectin and decline to control levels over the next 3 hr.
Levels of FOSB mRNA reach a maximum 40 min after the addition of lectin and decline to control levels over the next 6 hr.
In freshly isolated cells, both FOS and FOSB mRNAs increase dramatically in response to the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide.
In preincubated cells, the cycloheximide response is decreased, especially in the case of FOSB.
Regions of low base order-dependent stem-loop potential in the region of the gene are defined.
These indicate where base order has been adapted for purposes other than stem-loop stability -LRB- e.g., encoding proteins or gene regulation -RRB-.
A novel SP-1 site in the human interleukin-1 beta promoter confers preferential transcriptional activity in keratinocytes.
To investigate the mechanisms of transcriptional activation of interleukin-1beta -LRB- IL-1beta -RRB- in non-monocytic cells, we constructed a series of reporter plasmids with the bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase gene linked to various parts of the human IL-1beta promoter and performed transient transfection experiments.
We identified a promoter segment that activates transcription most efficiently in keratinocytes.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays -LRB- EMSA -RRB- with a 43-mer oligonucleotide derived from the functionally identified cis-acting element revealed specific complexes.
The closest match to the known SP-1 consensus sequence within the respective region is a TCCCCTCCCCT motif.
Mutation of this motif almost completely, and specifically, abolished the binding of two low-mobility complexes and led to a 95 % decrease of constitutive transcriptional activation of a reporter construct IL-1beta -LRB- -170 / +108 -RRB-.
Likewise, activation of this reporter construct by tumor necrosis factor-alpha depended on the SP-1 site.
Glucocorticoid-mediated inhibition of RANTES expression in human T lymphocytes.
The chemokine RANTES has been implicated in the pathogenesis of allergic inflammatory diseases including asthma and rhinitis which are frequently treated with glucocorticoids.
We observed that dexamethasone dramatically inhibited RANTES mRNA expression dose dependently in anti-CD3 activated Hut-78 T cells and human PBMCs.
Involvement of nuclear factor-kappa B activation in IgE synthesis in human B cells.
Nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- is a transcription factor that binds to the consensus DNA sequence in the cis-acting elements of various genes.
Although NF-kappa B activates the expression of many genes involved in immune and inflammatory responses, little is known about the role of NF-kappa B activation in the induction of IgE synthesis in human B cells.
Therefore we first examined the participation of NF-kappa B in germline C epsilon transcription in a human Burkitt lymphoma B cell line, DND39.
Stimulation of DND39 cells with IL-4 or anti-CD40 monoclonal antibody -LRB- mAb -RRB- activated phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and subsequently induced nuclear expression of NF-kappa B, which was identified by electrophoretic mobility shift assays.
n-Acetyl-L-cysteine -LRB- NAC -RRB-, a potent antioxidant, blocked NF-kappa B activation caused by IL-4 and by anti-CD40 mAb.
Although inhibition of IL-4-driven germline C epsilon transcription by NAC was not sufficient, the agent remarkably diminished anti-CD40 mAb-mediated up-regulation of germline C epsilon transcription.
Second, we studied the effect of NAC on IgE synthesis in human normal B cells costimulated with IL-4 and anti-CD40 mAb.
NAC was effective in inhibiting mature C epsilon transcription and IgE synthesis in the T cell-independent culture system.
However, NAC did not significantly affect the spontaneous production of IgE by atopic B cells.
Effects of glucocorticoids on lymphocyte activation in patients with steroid-sensitive and steroid-resistant asthma.
BACKGROUND : Glucocorticoids are important medications used to control the airway inflammation associated with asthma.
Synthetic glucocorticoids vary in their binding affinity for the glucocorticoid receptor -LRB- GCR -RRB-.
METHODS : We compared hydrocortisone, beclomethasone dipropionate, triamcinolone acetonide, flunisolide, and budesonide with regard to their capacity to inhibit phytohemagglutinin-induced peripheral blood mononuclear cell proliferation from six patients with steroid-sensitive asthma and seven patients with steroid-resistant asthma.
Peripheral blood mononuclear cell GCR binding affinities for dexamethasone and budesonide were also determined for both patient groups by using a radioligand binding assay and Scatchard analysis.
RESULTS : Dose-dependent inhibition was demonstrated for all glucocorticoids in both patient groups, with the steroid-resistant group requiring approximately 2 log-fold more glucocorticoids for an equivalent degree of inhibition.
The mean concentrations necessary to cause 50 % inhibition of lymphocyte proliferation -LRB- IC50s -RRB- for the steroid-sensitive group ranged from 2 x 10 -LRB- -10 -RRB- mol/L for budesonide to 7 x 10 -LRB- -8 -RRB- mol/L for hydrocortisone, whereas the mean IC50s for the steroid-resistant group ranged from approximately 2 x 10 -LRB- -8 -RRB- mol/L for budesonide to greater than 10 -LRB- -6 -RRB- mol/L for hydrocortisone.
In addition, a significant correlation was noted between the degree of inhibition of lymphocyte proliferation -LRB- IC50 -RRB- and the binding affinity of dexamethasone to the GCR.
Patients with steroid-resistant asthma have been shown to have a reduced GCR binding affinity.
The GCR binding affinity for budesonide was significantly higher in both groups -LRB- i.e., lower dissociation constant -RRB- than that obtained for dexamethasone.
Acetylsalicylic acid and sodium salicylate inhibit LPS-induced NF-kappa B/c-Rel nuclear translocation, and synthesis of tissue factor -LRB- TF -RRB- and tumor necrosis factor alfa -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- in human monocytes.
We have investigated the effects of acetylsalicylic acid and sodium salicylate on the LPS-induced synthesis of the pro-coagulant protein tissue factor -LRB- TF -RRB- and the pro-inflammatory protein tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB-, as well as the prostaglandin PGE2 in human monocytes.
Both drugs dose-dependently inhibited LPS-induced TF and TNF-alpha synthesis at the mRNA and the protein level, and reduced PGE2 production.
Synergistic interactions between overlapping binding sites for the serum response factor and ELK-1 proteins mediate both basal enhancement and phorbol ester responsiveness of primate cytomegalovirus major immediate-early promoters in monocyte and T-lymphocyte cell types.
Cytomegalovirus -LRB- CMV -RRB- infection is nonpermissive or persistent in many lymphoid and myeloid cell types but can be activated in differentiated macrophages.
We have shown elsewhere that both the major immediate-early gene -LRB- MIE -RRB- and lytic cycle infectious progeny virus expression can be induced in otherwise nonpermissive monocyte-like U-937 cell cultures infected with either human CMV -LRB- HCMV -RRB- or simian CMV -LRB- SCMV -RRB- by treatment with the phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB-.
Two multicopy basal enhancer motifs within the SCMV MIE enhancer, namely, 11 copies of the 16-bp cyclic AMP response element -LRB- CRE -RRB- and 3 copies of novel 17-bp serum response factor -LRB- SRF -RRB- binding sites referred to as the SNE -LRB- SRF/NFkappaB-like element -RRB-, as well as four classical NFkappaB sites within the HCMV version, contribute to TPA responsiveness in transient assays in monocyte and T-cell types.
The SCMV SNE sites contain potential overlapping core recognition binding motifs for SRF, Rel/NFkappaB, ETS, and YY1 class transcription factors but fail to respond to either serum or tumor necrosis factor alpha.
Therefore, to evaluate the mechanism of TPA responsiveness of the SNE motifs and of a related 16-bp SEE -LRB- SRF/ETS element -RRB- motif found in the HCMV and chimpanzee CMV MIE enhancers, we have examined the functional responses and protein binding properties of multimerized wild-type and mutant elements added upstream to the SCMV MIE or simian virus 40 minimal promoter regions in the U-937, K-562, HL-60, THP-1, and Jurkat cell lines.
Unlike classical NFkappaB sites, neither the SNE nor the SEE motif responded to phosphatase inhibition by okadaic acid.
However, the TPA responsiveness of both CMV elements proved to involve synergistic interactions between the core SRF binding site -LRB- CCATATATGG -RRB- and the adjacent inverted ETS binding motifs -LRB- TTCC -RRB-, which correlated directly with formation of a bound tripartite complex containing both the cellular SRF and ELK-1 proteins.
This protein complex was more abundant in U-937, K-562, and HeLa cell extracts than in Raji, HF, BALB/c 3T3, or HL-60 cells, but the binding activity was altered only twofold after TPA treatment.
Characterization of the murine cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor gene p27Kip1.
The cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27Kip1 plays an important role in regulating cell-cycle progression.
p27Kip1 directly inhibits the catalytic activity of cyclin/cdks -LRB- cyclin-dependent kinase -RRB- complexes and/or interferes physically with cyclin/cdks activation by CAK.
Interestingly, the expression level of p27Kip1 mRNA was maximal in resting Go T-cells and rapidly declined following anti-CD3 activation.
We report here the cloning of p27Kip1 gene from murine genomic DNA and the functional analysis of the promoter of the p27Kip1 gene.
The gene consists of at least three exons and spans more than 5.6 kb of DNA.
Primer extension and nuclease S1 protection analysis revealed two major transcription initiation sites.
The promoter region lacked a TATA box but contained potential binding sites for the transcriptional factors including two Sp1, CRE, Myb and NFkB located at positions -153, -178, -286, -875, and -1011, respectively.
To analyze the regulatory mechanisms controlling p27Kip1 gene expression, we characterized the 5' - flanking region from nt -1609 to +178.
The -326 to -615 region contained positive regulatory elements.
Octamer independent activation of transcription from the kappa immunoglobulin germline promoter.
Previous analyses of immunoglobulin V region promoters has led to the discovery of a common octamer motif which is functionally important in the tissue-specific and developmentally regulated transcriptional activation of immunoglobulin genes.
The germline promoters -LRB- Ko -RRB- located upstream of the J region gene segments of the kappa locus also contain an octamer motif -LRB- containing a single base pair mutation and referred to as the variant octamer -RRB- which has been shown previously to bind Oct-1 and Oct-2 transcription factors in vitro.
To further elucidate the role of this variant octamer motif in the regulation of germline transcription from the unrearranged kappa locus, we have quantitated the relative binding affinity of Oct-1 and Oct-2 for the variant octamer motif and determined the functional role of this octamer motif in transcriptional activation.
We find that, although the variant octamer motif binds Oct-1 and Oct-2 in vitro with 5-fold lower affinity than the consensus octamer motif, mutation of the variant octamer motif to either a consensus octamer or non-octamer motif has no effect on transcriptional activation from the germline promoter.
We also find significant differences in activation of germline and V region promoters by kappa enhancers.
These findings have important implications in regulation of germline transcription as well as concomitant activation of the V-J recombination of the kappa light chain locus.
Differential induction of interferon -LRB- IFN -RRB- - inducible protein 10 following differentiation of a monocyte, macrophage cell lineage is related to the changes of nuclear proteins bound to IFN stimulus response element and kappaB sites.
We examined chemokine gene expression following the differentiation of a monocyte, macrophage cell lineage.
The human monoblastic cell line, U937 was differentiated to macrophages by the treatment with either phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB-, retinoic acid -LRB- RA -RRB-, or vitamin D3 -LRB- VitD3 -RRB-.
The gene expression of interferon -LRB- IFN -RRB- - inducible protein 10 -LRB- IP-10 -RRB- -LRB- a CXC chemokine -RRB- was markedly augmented by the IFNgamma treatment in PMA - or RA-differentiated U937 cells, but only marginally in undifferentiated or VitD3-treated cells.
Fludarabine-induced immunosuppression is associated with inhibition of STAT1 signaling.
Fludarabine is a nucleoside analog used in the treatment of hematologic malignancies that can induce severe and prolonged immunosuppression.
Although it can be incorporated into the DNA of dividing cells, fludarabine is also a potent inhibitor of cells with a low growth fraction, thus it must have other mechanisms of action.
STAT1, which is activated in response to many lymphocyte-activating cytokines including the interferons, is essential for cell-mediated immunity, as the absence of this protein is associated with prominent defects in the ability to control viral infections.
Here we show that fludarabine, but not the immunosuppressant cyclosporine A, inhibits the cytokine-induced activation of STAT1 and STAT1-dependent gene transcription in normal resting or activated lymphocytes.
Fludarabine caused a specific depletion of STAT1 protein -LRB- and mRNA -RRB- but not of other STATs.
This loss of STAT1 was also seen in cells from patients treated with fludarabine in vivo.
Brief exposure to fludarabine led to a sustained loss of STAT1, analogous to the prolonged period of immunosuppression induced by exposure to the drug in vivo.
Signal transduction pathways activated in endothelial cells following infection with Chlamydia pneumoniae.
Chlamydia pneumoniae is an important respiratory pathogen.
Recently, its presence has been demonstrated in atherosclerotic lesions.
In this study, we characterized C. pneumoniae-mediated activation of endothelial cells and demonstrated an enhanced expression of endothelial adhesion molecules followed by subsequent rolling, adhesion, and transmigration of leukocytes -LRB- monocytes, granulocytes -RRB-.
These effects were blocked by mAbs against endothelial and/or leukocyte adhesion molecules -LRB- beta1 and beta2 integrins -RRB-.
Additionally, activation of different signal transduction pathways in C. pneumoniae-infected endothelial cells was shown : protein tyrosine phosphorylation, up-regulation of phosphorylated p42/p44 mitogen-activated protein kinase, and NF-kappaB activation/translocation occurred within 10-15 min.
Increased mRNA and surface expression of E-selectin, ICAM-1, and VCAM-1 were noted within hours.
Extracellular-regulated kinase 1/2, Jun N-terminal kinase, and c-Jun are involved in NF-kappa B-dependent IL-6 expression in human monocytes.
Freshly isolated monocytes treated with the protein phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid secreted high levels of IL-6 protein, which coincided with enhanced binding activity of NF-kappa B as well as with phosphorylation and activation of the ERK1/2 and JNK proteins.
The ERK pathway-specific inhibitor PD98059 inhibited IL-6 secretion from monocytes.
Transient overexpression of inactive mutants of either Raf-1 or JNK1 showed that both pathways were involved in kappa B-dependent IL-6 promoter activity.
By using PD98059, we demonstrated that the Raf1/MEK1/ERK1 / 2 pathway did not affect the DNA binding of NF-kappa B but, rather, acted at the level of transcriptional activity of NF-kappa B..
Interestingly, it was shown that NF-kappa B-mediated gene transcription, both in the context of the IL-6 promoter as well as on its own, was dependent on both serine kinase activity and interaction with c-Jun protein.
We conclude that okadaic acid-induced IL-6 gene expression is at least partly mediated through the ERK1/2 and JNK pathway-dependent activation of NF-kappa B transcriptional capacity.
Engagement of natural cytotoxicity programs regulates AP-1 expression in the NKL human NK cell line.
NK cell cytotoxicity is a fast and efficient mechanism of target cell lysis.
Using transcription analysis, such as multiplex messenger assays, we show here that natural cytotoxicity exerted by the human NKL cell line correlates with mRNA accumulation of very early activator protein -LRB- AP -RRB- -1 transcription factor genes such as JunB, FosB and c-Fos.
In addition, DNA-binding activities of Jun-Fos heterodimers were observed by electrophoretic mobility shift assays during the course of natural cytotoxicity.
Interaction between immunoglobulin-like transcript-2 / leukocyte Ig-like receptor 1 on NKL cells and HLA-B27 on target cells leads to an impairment of NKL natural cytotoxicity, which correlates with an absence of JunB, FosB, and c-Fos transcription, as well as an absence of their DNA-binding activity.
Human cytomegalovirus binding to human monocytes induces immunoregulatory gene expression.
To continue our investigation of the cellular events that occur following human CMV -LRB- HCMV -RRB- infection, we focused on the regulation of cellular activation following viral binding to human monocytes.
First, we showed that viral binding induced a number of immunoregulatory genes -LRB- IL-1beta, A20, NF-kappaB-p105 / p50, and IkappaBalpha -RRB- in unactivated monocytes and that neutralizing Abs to the major HCMV glycoproteins, gB -LRB- UL55 -RRB- and gH -LRB- UL75 -RRB-, inhibited the induction of these genes.
Next, we demonstrated that these viral ligands directly up-regulated monocyte gene expression upon their binding to their appropriate cellular receptors.
Our results showed that HCMV binding to monocytes resulted in the production and release of IL-1beta protein.
These experiments showed that, in fact, NF-kappaB was translocated to the nucleus following viral binding or purified viral ligand binding.
Changes in IkappaBalpha levels correlated with the changes in NF-kappaB translocation.
Lastly, we demonstrated that p38 kinase activity played a central role in IL-1beta production and that it was rapidly up-regulated following infection.
Studies into the effect of tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor phenylarsine oxide on NFkappaB activation in T lymphocytes during aging : evidence for altered IkappaB-alpha phosphorylation and degradation.
Nuclear Factor kappa B -LRB- NFkappaB -RRB- is a critical regulator of several genes involved in immune and inflammatory responses.
Treatment of T cells with a variety of stimuli, including TNF-alpha, leads to the translocation of the active p65-50 heterodimer to the nucleus, albeit at a lower level in T cells from the elderly.
Furthermore, it demonstrates that aging does not influence the sensitivity of this phosphatase.
Treatment with DMP prior to treatment with PAO and TNF abolishes the inhibition induced by PAO, in T cells from both young and old donors, alike.
Finally, we demonstrate that a failure to degrade IkappaB-alpha in cytosols of TNF-treated T cells pretreated with PAO is due to its interference with the phosphorylation of IkappaB-alpha and not due to its inhibitory effect on proteasomal degradation.
A novel lipopolysaccharide-induced transcription factor regulating tumor necrosis factor alpha gene expression : molecular cloning, sequencing, characterization, and chromosomal assignment.
Lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- is a potent stimulator of monocytes and macrophages, causing secretion of tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- and other inflammatory mediators.
Given the deleterious effects to the host of TNF-alpha, it has been postulated that TNF-alpha gene expression must be tightly regulated.
Our previous studies pertaining to macrophage response to LPS identified a novel DNA-binding domain located from -550 to -487 in the human TNF-alpha promoter that contains transcriptional activity, but lacks any known NF-kappaB-binding sites.
We have used this DNA fragment to isolate and purify a 60-kDa protein binding to this fragment and obtained its amino-terminal sequence, which was used to design degenerate probes to screen a cDNA library from THP-1 cells.
A novel cDNA clone -LRB- 1.8 kb -RRB- was isolated and fully sequenced.
Characterization of this cDNA clone revealed that its induction was dependent on LPS activation of THP-1 cells ; hence, the name LPS-induced TNF-alpha factor -LRB- LITAF -RRB-.
Inhibition of LITAF mRNA expression in THP-1 cells resulted in a reduction of TNF-alpha transcripts.
In addition, high level of expression of LITAF mRNA was observed predominantly in the placenta, peripheral blood leukocytes, lymph nodes, and the spleen.
Finally, chromosomal localization using fluorescence in situ hybridization revealed that LITAF mapped to chromosome 16p12-16p13 .3.
Unexpected and coordinated expression of Spi-1, Fli-1, and megakaryocytic genes in four Epo-dependent cell lines established from transgenic mice displaying erythroid-specific expression of a thermosensitive SV40 T antigen.
Most erythroleukemic cell lines established in vitro coexpress erythrocytic and megakaryocytic markers that often are associated with expression of Spi-1 and/or Fli-1 transcription factors known as transactivators of megakaryocyte-specific promoters.
In the present study, we examined the possibility of establishing new cell lines keeping strictly erythroid-specific properties in vitro through the targeted and conditional immortalization of erythrocytic progenitors.
For that purpose, we established several lines of transgenic mice displaying erythroid-specific expression of a thermosensitive SV40 T antigen.
As expected, these transgenic mice developed splenomegaly due to the massive amplification of Ter 119 positive erythroid nucleated cells expressing T antigen.
Despite this drastic effect in vivo, the in vitro immortalization of erythropoietin-dependent erythroid progenitors unexpectedly occurred at low frequency, and all four cell lines established expressed both erythrocytic -LRB- globins -RRB- and megakaryocytic markers -LRB- glycoprotein IIb, platelet factor 4 -RRB- as well as Spi-1 and Fli-1 transcripts at permissive temperature.
Switching the cells to the nonpermissive temperature led to a marked increase in globin gene expression and concomitant decrease in expression of Spi-1, Fli-1, and megakaryocytic genes in an erythropoietin-dependent manner.
Interestingly, enhanced expression of Spi-1 and Fli-1 genes already was detected in the Ter 119 positive cell population of transgenic mice spleen in vivo.
However, like normal Ter 119 erythroid cells, these Ter 119 positive cells from transgenic mice still expressed high levels of beta-globin and very low or undetectable glycoprotein IIb and platelet factor 4 megakaryocytic transcripts.
LPS-Induced NF-kappaB activation and TNF-alpha release in human monocytes are protein tyrosine kinase dependent and protein kinase C independent.
BACKGROUND : Tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- is an important mediator of septic shock.
Endotoxin -LRB- LPS -RRB- signal transduction in human monocytes leads to activation of nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- and TNF-alpha release.
Previous studies have implicated activation of both protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- and protein tyrosine kinases -LRB- PTK -RRB- in LPS-induced NF-kappaB activation and TNF-alpha production.
TNF-alpha release in culture supernatants was measured by an ELISA.
NF-kappaB DNA binding was evaluated by electrophoretic mobility shift assay.
RESULTS : LPS increased NF-kappaB DNA binding and TNF-alpha release in human monocytes.
Nonspecific protein kinase inhibition inhibited NF-kappaB activation and TNF-alpha release, while specific PKC inhibition with Bis had no effect on LPS-induced NF-kappaB DNA binding or TNF-alpha release.
PTK inhibition with Gen attenuated both LPS-induced NF-kappaB DNA binding and TNF-alpha production in human monocytes.
Direct activation of PKC with PMA induced both NF-kappaB activation and TNF-alpha production by human monocytes.
Copyright 1999 Academic Press.
SHP2-interacting transmembrane adaptor protein -LRB- SIT -RRB-, a novel disulfide-linked dimer regulating human T cell activation.
T lymphocytes express several low molecular weight transmembrane adaptor proteins that recruit src homology -LRB- SH -RRB- 2 domain-containing intracellular molecules to the cell membrane via tyrosine-based signaling motifs.
We describe here a novel molecule of this group termed SIT -LRB- SHP2 interacting transmembrane adaptor protein -RRB-.
SIT is a disulfide-linked homodimeric glycoprotein that is expressed in lymphocytes.
GrpL, a Grb2-related adaptor protein, interacts with SLP-76 to regulate nuclear factor of activated T cell activation.
Propagation of signals from the T cell antigen receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- involves a number of adaptor molecules.
SH2 domain-containing protein 76 -LRB- SLP-76 -RRB- interacts with the guanine nucleotide exchange factor Vav to activate the nuclear factor of activated cells -LRB- NF-AT -RRB-, and its expression is required for normal T cell development.
We report the cloning and characterization of a novel Grb2-like adaptor molecule designated as Grb2-related protein of the lymphoid system -LRB- GrpL -RRB-.
Expression of GrpL is restricted to hematopoietic tissues, and it is distinguished from Grb2 by having a proline-rich region.
GrpL can be coimmunoprecipitated with SLP-76 but not with Sos1 or Sos2 from Jurkat cell lysates.
In contrast, Grb2 can be coimmunoprecipitated with Sos1 and Sos2 but not with SLP-76.
Moreover, tyrosine-phosphorylated LAT/pp36/38 in detergent lysates prepared from anti-CD3 stimulated T cells associated with Grb2 but not GrpL.
These data reveal the presence of distinct complexes involving GrpL and Grb2 in T cells.
Inhibition of T cell signaling by mitogen-activated protein kinase-targeted hematopoietic tyrosine phosphatase -LRB- HePTP -RRB-.
Activation of T lymphocytes to produce cytokines is regulated by the counterbalance of protein-tyrosine kinases and protein-tyrosine phosphatases, many of which have a high degree of substrate specificity because of physical association with their targets.
Overexpression of hematopoietic protein-tyrosine phosphatase -LRB- HePTP -RRB- results in suppression of T lymphocyte activation as measured by T cell antigen receptor-induced activation of transcription factors binding to the 5' promoter of the interleukin-2 gene.
Efforts to pinpoint the exact site of action and specificity of HePTP in the signaling cascade revealed that HePTP acts directly on the mitogen-activated protein -LRB- MAP -RRB- kinases Erk1 and 2 and consequently reduces the magnitude and duration of their catalytic activation in intact T cells.
In contrast, HePTP had no effects on N-terminal c-Jun kinase or on events upstream of the MAP kinases.
The specificity of HePTP correlated with its physical association through its noncatalytic N terminus with Erk and another MAP kinase, p38, but not Jnk or other proteins.
Angiotensin II activates the proinflammatory transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB in human monocytes.
A common feature of all stages of atherosclerosis is inflammation of the vessel wall.
The transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- participates in most signaling pathways involved in inflammation.
This study therefore examined the effect of angiotensin -LRB- ANG -RRB- II on NF-kappaB activation in monocytic cells, a major cellular component of human atheroma, by electrophoretic mobility shift assay.
ANG II, like TNFalpha, caused rapid activation of NF-kappaB in human mononuclear cells isolated from peripheral blood by Ficoll density gradient.
This ANG II effect was blocked by the angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonist losartan.
Specificity of ANG II-induced NF-kappaB activation was ascertained by supershift and competition experiments.
Moreover, ANG II stimulated NF-kappaB activation in human monocytes, but not in lymphocytes from the same preparation.
Together, the data demonstrate the ability of the vasoactive peptide ANG II to activate inflammatory pathways in human monocytes.
Copyright 1999 Academic Press.
Suppressive effects of anti-inflammatory agents on human endothelial cell activation and induction of heat shock proteins.
The interactions of Hsp60-specific T cells with arterial endothelial cells -LRB- EC -RRB- require expression of both Hsp60 and certain adhesion molecules shown to be induced simultaneously in EC by mechanical and other types of stress.
Recently, it was shown that suppression of T cell-mediated immune responses by cyclosporin A -LRB- CyA -RRB- enhanced atherosclerotic lesion formation in mice.
In contrast, aspirin was found to lower the risk of myocardial infarction in men.
MATERIAL AND METHODS : In the present study, we analyzed the effects of CyA, aspirin, and indomethacin on T cell proliferation using a proliferation assay.
To explore the expression of adhesion molecules, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 -LRB- MCP-1 -RRB-, and Hsp60 in human umbilical vein endothelial cells -LRB- HUVECs -RRB-, Northern blot analyses were used.
To examine the activation status of the transcription factors nuclear factor kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- and heat shock factor-1 -LRB- HSF-1 -RRB-, electrophoretic mobility shift assays were performed.
RESULTS : With the exception of indomethacin, the used immunosuppressive and anti-inflammatory agents significantly inhibited T cell proliferation in response to influenza virus antigen in a dose-dependent manner.
Interestingly, CyA and indomethacin did not suppress tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- - induced adhesion molecule expression on HUVECs, whereas aspirin had an inhibitory effect.
These observations correlated with the modulation of NF-kappaB activity in EC.
All agents tested induced expression of Hsp60 6 hr after application.
In addition, aspirin and indomethacin, but not CyA, induced Hsp70 expression in HUVECs that correlated with induction of HSF-1 activity.
CONCLUSION : Our results show that the tested agents -LRB- except indomethacin -RRB- are inhibitors of the T cell-mediated immune response, as expected, that aspirin is an effective suppressor of adhesion molecule expression, and that all three agents can induce Hsp60 in HUVECs.
Amelioration of rat cerulein pancreatitis by guamerin-derived peptide, a novel elastase inhibitor.
Increased activity of various proteases is observed in both human and experimental pancreatitis ; however, the information on the effects of specific protease inhibitors on the disease is limited.
In this study we show that a novel elastase inhibitor, guamerin-derived synthetic peptide -LRB- GDSP -RRB-, improves the parameters of cerulein-induced acute pancreatitis in the rat.
The effects of GDSP on pancreatic weight, serum amylase and lipase, morphologic changes in the pancreas, neutrophil infiltration, and nuclear factor KB -LRB- NF-KB -RRB- activation were measured in rats infused with supramaximal dose of cerulein -LRB- 5 -LRB- g/kg/h -RRB- for 6 h..
The effects of GDSP were also measured on superoxide formation by activated human neutrophils.
The effects of GDSP were compared with those of another elastase inhibitor, elastatinal.
GDSP significantly inhibited edema formation, neutrophil infiltration, acinar cell damage, and plasma lipase and amylase increases caused by cerulein.
GDSP also completely inhibited superoxide formation in the human neutrophils stimulated by N-formyl-methionine-leucine-phenyl-alanine -LRB- fMLP -RRB- or 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB-.
Elastatinal had some of the same effects as GDSP but was less potent and effective.
These results demonstrate a beneficial effect of GDSP, a novel specific elastase inhibitor, on the development of rat cerulein pancreatitis.
Thrombin-induced p65 homodimer binding to downstream NF-kappa B site of the promoter mediates endothelial ICAM-1 expression and neutrophil adhesion.
We investigated the mechanisms by which proinflammatory mediator, thrombin, released during intravascular coagulation and tissue injury, induces ICAM-1 -LRB- CD54 -RRB- expression in endothelial cells.
Stimulation of HUVEC with thrombin resulted in dose - and time-dependent increases in ICAM-1 mRNA and cell surface expression and in ICAM-1-dependent endothelial adhesivity toward polymorphonuclear leukocytes.
Gel supershift assays demonstrated that thrombin induced binding of NF-kappa Bp65 -LRB- Rel A -RRB- to downstream NF-kappa B site of the ICAM-1 promoter.
Thrombin receptor activation peptide, a 14-amino-acid peptide representing the new NH2 terminus of proteolytically activated receptor-1, mimicked thrombin 's action in inducing ICAM-1 expression.
The evolutionarily conserved sequence upstream of the human Ig heavy chain S gamma 3 region is an inducible promoter : synergistic activation by CD40 ligand and IL-4 via cooperative NF-kappa B and STAT-6 binding sites.
Germline C gamma gene transcription is a crucial event in the process that leads to switch DNA recombination to IgG, but its regulation in the human is poorly understood.
We took advantage of our monoclonal model of germinal center B cell differentiation, IgM + IgD + CL-01 cells, to define the role of the I gamma 3 evolutionarily conserved sequence -LRB- ECS -RRB- in the germline transcriptional activation of the human C gamma 3 gene.
The I gamma 3 ECS lies upstream of the major I gamma 3 transcription initiation site and displays more than 90 % identity with the corresponding human I gamma 1, I gamma 2, and I gamma 4 regions.
Reporter luciferase gene vectors containing the human gamma 3 ECS were used to transfect CL-01 cells, which have been shown to undergo Smu -- > S gamma 3 DNA recombination, upon engagement of CD40 by CD40 ligand -LRB- CD40L -RRB- and exposure to IL-4.
In these transfected CL-01 cells, CD40 : CD40L engagement and exposure to IL-4 synergistically induced gamma 3 ECS-dependent luciferase reporter gene activation.
Targeted mutational analysis demonstrated that a tandem NF-kappa B/Rel binding motif is critical for the gamma 3 ECS responsiveness to both CD40L and IL-4, while a STAT-6-binding site is additionally required for IL-4 inducibility.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays showed that p50/p65/c-Rel and STAT-6 are effectively induced by CD40L and IL-4, respectively, and bind to specific DNA motifs within the ECS.
These partially overlapping CD40L and IL-4 responsive elements are functionally cooperative as the disruption of one of them prevents synergistic promoter activation.
Thus, the gamma 3 ECS is an inducible promoter containing cis elements that critically mediate CD40L and IL-4-triggered transcriptional activation of the human C gamma 3 gene.
Molecular regulation of cytokine gene expression during the immune response.
Cytokine expression by immune system cells plays an important role in the regulation of the immune response.
On first encounter with antigen, naive CD4 + T helper -LRB- Th -RRB- cells differentiate into cytokine-producing effector cells.
Two types of effector cells characterized by their distinct expression of cytokine profiles have been described.
Th1 cells produce IL-2 and IFN-gamma, whereas Th2 cells produce IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, and IL-13.
In many pathological situations, the balance between Th1 and Th2 immune responses determines the outcome of diverse immunologically mediated clinical syndromes including infectious, autoimmune, and allergic diseases.
However, the molecular basis for the tissue-specific expression of Th1/Th2-like cytokines has remained elusive.
Activation of nuclear factor-kappaB by lipopolysaccharide in mononuclear leukocytes is prevented by inhibitors of cytosolic phospholipase A2.
In monocytes, lipopolysaccharide induces synthesis and activity of the 85-kDa cytosolic phospholipase A2.
This enzyme releases arachidonic acid and lyso-phospholipids from membranes which are metabolized to eicosanoids and platelet-activating-factor.
We have shown previously that trifluoromethylketone inhibitors of cytosolic phospholipase A2 suppressed interleukin-1beta protein and steady-state mRNA levels in human lipopolysaccharide-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes.
In this study, the subcellular mechanisms were analyzed by which trifluoromethylketones interfere with gene expression.
We found that they reduced the initial interleukin-1beta mRNA transcription rate through prevention of degradation of inhibitor-kappaB alpha.
Consequently, cytosolic activation, nuclear translocation and DNA-binding of nuclear factor-kappaB were decreased.
Trifluoromethylketones ameliorate chronic inflammation in vivo.
Immunosuppressant PG490 -LRB- triptolide -RRB- inhibits T-cell interleukin-2 expression at the level of purine-box/nuclear factor of activated T-cells and NF-kappaB transcriptional activation.
PG490 -LRB- triptolide -RRB- is a diterpene triepoxide with potent immunosuppressive and antiinflammatory properties.
PG490 inhibits interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -2 expression by normal human peripheral blood lymphocytes stimulated with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- and antibody to CD3 -LRB- IC50 of 10 ng/ml -RRB-, and with PMA and ionomycin -LRB- Iono, IC50 of 40 ng/ml -RRB-.
In Jurkat T-cells, PG490 inhibits PMA/Iono-stimulated IL-2 transcription.
PG490 inhibits the induction of DNA binding activity at the purine-box/antigen receptor response element -LRB- ARRE -RRB- / nuclear factor of activated T-cells -LRB- NF-AT -RRB- target sequence but not at the NF-kappaB site.
PG490 can completely inhibit transcriptional activation at the purine-box/ARRE/NF-AT and NF-kappaB target DNA sequences triggered by all stimuli examined -LRB- PMA, PMA/Iono, tumor necrosis factor-alpha -RRB-.
PG490 also inhibits PMA-stimulated activation of a chimeric transcription factor in which the C-terminal TA1 transactivation domain of NF-kappaB p65 is fused to the DNA binding domain of GAL4.
In 16HBE human bronchial epithelial cells, IL-8 expression is regulated predominantly by NF-kappaB, and PG490 but not cyclosporin A can completely inhibit expression of IL-8.
The mechanism of PG490 inhibition of cytokine gene expression differs from cyclosporin A and involves nuclear inhibition of transcriptional activation of NF-kappaB and the purine-box regulator operating at the ARRE/NF-AT site at a step after specific DNA binding.
CIITA-induced occupation of MHC class II promoters is independent of the cooperative stabilization of the promoter-bound multi-protein complexes.
Precise regulation of MHC class II expression plays a crucial role in the control of the immune response.
Activation of MHC class II promoters requires binding of at least three distinct multi-protein complexes -LRB- RFX, X2BP and NF-Y -RRB-.
It is known that the stability of this binding results from cooperative interactions between these proteins.
We show here that expression of CIITA in MHC class II - cells triggers occupation of the promoters by these complexes.
We show, however, that the presence of CIITA does not affect the stability of the higher-order protein complex formed on DNA by RFX, X2BP and NF-Y.
This ability of CIITA to facilitate promoter occupation is undissociable from its transactivation potential.
Finally, we conclude that this effect of CIITA is cell-type specific, since expression of CIITA is not required for normal occupation of MHC class II promoters in B lymphocytes.
Tcf-1-mediated transcription in T lymphocytes : differential role for glycogen synthase kinase-3 in fibroblasts and T cells.
Beta-catenin is the vertebrate homolog of the Drosophila segment polarity gene Armadillo and plays roles in both cell-cell adhesion and transduction of the Wnt signaling cascade.
Recently, members of the Lef/Tcf transcription factor family have been identified as protein partners of beta-catenin, explaining how beta-catenin alters gene expression.
However, although Wnt signals are known to inhibit the activity of the negative regulatory protein kinase glycogen synthase kinase-3beta -LRB- GSK-3beta -RRB-, resulting in increased levels of beta-catenin, we find no evidence for involvement of GSK-3beta in Tcf-mediated transcription in T cells.
That is, a dominant negative GSK-3beta does not specifically activate Tcf transcription and stimuli -LRB- lithium or phytohemagglutinin -RRB- that inhibit GSK-3beta activity also do not activate Tcf reporter genes.
Thus, inhibition of GSK-3beta is insufficient to activate Tcf-dependent transcription in T lymphocytes.
In contrast, in C57MG fibroblast cells, lithium inactivates GSK-3beta and induces Tcf-controlled transcription.
This is the first demonstration that lithium can alter gene expression of Tcf-responsive genes, and points to a difference in regulation of Wnt signaling between fibroblasts and lymphocytes.
Cellular disposition of sulphamethoxazole and its metabolites : implications for hypersensitivity.
We have therefore examined the cellular metabolism, disposition and conjugation of SMX and its metabolites in vitro.
2. Flow cytometry revealed binding of N-hydroxy -LRB- SMX-NHOH -RRB- and nitroso -LRB- SMX-NO -RRB- metabolites of SMX, but not of SMX itself, to the surface of viable white blood cells.
Cellular haptenation by SMX-NO was reduced by exogenous glutathione -LRB- GSH -RRB-.
4. Fluorescence HPLC showed that SMX-NHOH and SMX-NO depleted CYS and GSH in buffer, and to a lesser extent, in cells and plasma.
5. Neutrophil apoptosis and inhibition of neutrophil function were induced at lower concentrations of SMX-NHOH and SMX-NO than those inducing loss of membrane viability, with SMX having no effect.
Lymphocytes were significantly -LRB- P < 0.05 -RRB- more sensitive to the direct cytotoxic effects of SMX-NO than neutrophils.
6. Partitioning of SMX-NHOH into red blood cells was significantly -LRB- P < 0.05 -RRB- lower than with the hydroxylamine of dapsone.
Transcriptional targeting of retroviral vectors to the erythroblastic progeny of transduced hematopoietic stem cells.
Targeted expression to specific tissues or cell lineages is a necessary feature of a gene therapy vector for many clinical applications, such as correction of hemoglobinopathies or thalassemias by transplantation of genetically modified hematopoietic stem cells.
We developed retroviral vectors in which the constitutive viral enhancer in the U3 region of the 3' LTR is replaced by an autoregulatory enhancer of the erythroid-specific GATA-1 transcription factor gene.
The replaced enhancer is propagated to the 5' LTR upon integration into the target cell genome.
The modified vectors were used to transduce human hematopoietic cell lines, cord blood-derived CD34 -LRB- + -RRB- stem/progenitor cells, and murine bone marrow repopulating stem cells.
The expression of appropriate reporter genes -LRB- triangle upLNGFR, EGFP -RRB- was analyzed in the differentiated progeny of transduced stem cells in vitro, in liquid culture as well as in clonogenic assay, and in vivo, after bone marrow transplantation in lethally irradiated mice.
The GATA-1 autoregulatory enhancer effectively restricts the expression of the LTR-driven proviral transcription unit to the erythroblastic progeny of both human progenitors and mouse-repopulating stem cells.
Packaging of viral particles, integration into the target genome, and stability of the integrated provirus are not affected by the LTR modification.
Enhancer replacement is therefore an effective strategy to target expression of a retroviral transgene to a specific progeny of transduced hematopoietic stem cells.
NF-kappaB activation is required for C5a-induced interleukin-8 gene expression in mononuclear cells.
C5a, a potent peptide chemoattractant, stimulates interleukin-8 -LRB- IL-8 -RRB- secretion from peripheral blood mononuclear cells -LRB- PBMC -RRB-.
Experiments were conducted to understand the mechanisms for C5a-induced IL-8 production, which was 14-fold greater than that in unstimulated cells by 2 hours.
IL-8 secretion was accompanied by accumulation of IL-8 mRNA in the cytosol and by nuclear expression of a kappaB DNA binding activity within 30 minutes.
The correlation between C5a-induced kappaB binding activity and IL-8 gene expression was examined in the RAW264 .7 macrophage cells using reporter genes directed by the kappaB sequence from IkappaBalpha and IL-8 promoter regions.
C5a-induced reporter gene expression was abolished by introducing mutations into the kappaB sites and by coexpression of a dominant negative IkappaBalpha construct resistant to agonist-induced phosphorylation.
Pertussis toxin, which ADP-ribosylates the Gi proteins known to couple to the C5a receptor, produced minimal inhibition of C5a-induced IL-8 expression and had little effect on C5a-induced calcium mobilization in RAW264 .7 cells.
Resistance to tumor necrosis factor induced apoptosis in vitro correlates with high metastatic capacity of cells in vivo.
TNF is one of the cytokines secreted by the cells of the immune system.
Our data demonstrate that those cell lines lacking capability to form metastatic tumors in vivo are susceptible to TNF induced apoptosis in vitro.
However, cell lines with high metastatic potential are resistant to TNF in vitro.
Furthermore, the same cell lines were resistant to cytolytic action of other cytotoxic proteins secreted by LAK cells.
Our data showed that TNF resistance in vitro correlates with the increased level of transcription factor NF-kappaB.
Signaling through the lymphotoxin-beta receptor stimulates HIV-1 replication alone and in cooperation with soluble or membrane-bound TNF-alpha.
The level of ongoing HIV-1 replication within an individual is critical to HIV-1 pathogenesis.
Among host immune factors, the cytokine TNF-alpha has previously been shown to increase HIV-1 replication in various monocyte and T cell model systems.
Here, we demonstrate that signaling through the TNF receptor family member, the lymphotoxin-beta -LRB- LT-beta -RRB- receptor -LRB- LT-betaR -RRB-, also regulates HIV-1 replication.
Furthermore, HIV-1 replication is cooperatively stimulated when the distinct LT-betaR and TNF receptor systems are simultaneously engaged by their specific ligands.
Moreover, in a physiological coculture cellular assay system, we show that membrane-bound TNF-alpha and LT-alpha1beta2 act virtually identically to their soluble forms in the regulation of HIV-1 replication.
Fibroblast growth factor-1 -LRB- FGF-1 -RRB- enhances IL-2 production and nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB in FGF receptor-bearing Jurkat T cells.
Fibroblast growth factors -LRB- FGFs -RRB- are heparin-binding proteins crucial to embryogenesis, angiogenesis, and wound healing.
FGF-1 is abundantly expressed in the synovium in rheumatoid arthritis and in rejecting allografts, sites of chronic immune-mediated inflammation.
The frequency of FGF-1-responsive T cells is increased in the peripheral blood of these disorders, and a high percentage of infiltrating T cells in rheumatoid arthritis synovium express receptors for FGF-1.
To understand the action of FGF-1 in T cells, studies were initiated in Jurkat T cells that express the signaling isoform of FGF receptor-1.
These experiments show that FGF-1 stimulation of Jurkat T cells provides a second signal that augments TCR-mediated IL-2 production.
Analogous to costimulation via CD28, this activity is mediated through activation of Rel/kappaB, a family of transcription factors known to regulate IL-2 and other activation-inducible proteins.
FGF-1 alone induces modest nuclear translocation of kappaB-binding proteins, and this translocation is enhanced by the combination of anti-CD3 and FGF-1.
This NF-kappaB binding complex is composed of transcriptionally active p65 -LRB- RelA -RRB- / p50 heterodimers and results primarily from the targeted degradation of IkappaB-alpha, an inhibitor that sequesters Rel/kappaB in the cytoplasm.
These data are the first to show a connection between FGF-1 signaling and NF-kappaB activation outside of embryonic development.
CTLA-4-Mediated inhibition of early events of T cell proliferation.
CTLA-4 engagement by mAbs inhibits, while CD28 enhances, IL-2 production and proliferation upon T cell activation.
Here, we have analyzed the mechanisms involved in CTLA-4-mediated inhibition of T cell activation of naive CD4 + T cells using Ab cross-linking.
Further, CTLA-4 engagement inhibited progression through the cell cycle by inhibiting the production of cyclin D3, cyclin-dependent kinase -LRB- cdk -RRB- 4, and cdk6 when the T cells were stimulated with anti-CD3 / CD28 and with anti-CD3 alone.
High molecular weight dextran sulfate increases the activity of NF-kappaB-regulated promoter in monocyte-derived macrophages.
It is known that sulfated polysaccharides can mimic the action of common T-cell mitogens.
To investigate the molecular basis of the mitogenic effect of high molecular weight dextran sulfate -LRB- HMDS -RRB-, monocyte-derived macrophages were transfected with recombinant plasmid containing chloramphenicol acetyl transferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- reporter gene under the control of the HIV-1 long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- promoter, which is regulated by transcription factor NF-kappaB.
The activation of NF-kappaB correlated with the increased expression of B7 .1 molecules.
Regulation of Fas ligand expression and cell death by apoptosis-linked gene 4.
Programmed cell death is a process required for the normal development of an organism.
One of the best understood apoptotic pathways occurs in T lymphocytes and is mediated by Fas/Fas ligand -LRB- FasL -RRB- interaction.
During studies of apoptosis induced by T cell-receptor engagement, we identified ALG-4F, a truncated transcript that prevents T cell-receptor-induced FasL upregulation and cell death.
Overexpression of full-length ALG-4 induced transcription of FasL and, consequently, apoptosis.
Fas/FasL interaction initiates cell death in many other systems, and its dysregulation is a mechanism by which several pathologic conditions arise.
Understanding the molecular mechanisms of FasL regulation could be very useful in elucidating how these diseases develop and in identifying potential therapeutic targets.
Bacterial lipopolysaccharide activates nuclear factor-kappaB through interleukin-1 signaling mediators in cultured human dermal endothelial cells and mononuclear phagocytes.
Bacterial lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- - mediated immune responses, including activation of monocytes, macrophages, and endothelial cells, play an important role in the pathogenesis of Gram-negative bacteria-induced sepsis syndrome.
Here we investigated the role and involvement of interleukin-1 -LRB- IL-1 -RRB- and tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- signal transducer molecules in LPS signaling in human dermal microvessel endothelial cells -LRB- HDMEC -RRB- and THP-1 monocytic cells.
LPS stimulation of HDMEC and THP-1 cells initiated an IL-1 receptor-like NF-kappaB signaling cascade.
In transient cotransfection experiments, dominant negative mutants of the IL-1 signaling pathway, including MyD88, IRAK, IRAK2, and TRAF6 inhibited both IL-1 - and LPS-induced NF-kappaB-luciferase activity.
LPS-induced NF-kappaB activation was not inhibited by a dominant negative mutant of TRAF2 that is involved in TNF signaling.
LPS-induced activation of NF-kappaB-responsive reporter gene was not inhibited by IL-1 receptor antagonist.
TLR2 and TLR4 were expressed on the cell surface of HDMEC and THP-1 cells.
Selective activation and functional significance of p38alpha mitogen-activated protein kinase in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated neutrophils.
Activation of leukocytes by proinflammatory stimuli selectively initiates intracellular signal transduction via sequential phosphorylation of kinases.
Lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- stimulation of human neutrophils is known to result in activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase -LRB- MAPk -RRB- ; however, the upstream activator -LRB- s -RRB- of p38 MAPk is unknown, and consequences of p38 MAPk activation remain largely undefined.
We investigated the MAPk kinase -LRB- MKK -RRB- that activates p38 MAPk in response to LPS, the p38 MAPk isoforms that are activated as part of this pathway, and the functional responses affected by p38 MAPk activation.
Although MKK3, MKK4, and MKK6 all activated p38 MAPk in experimental models, only MKK3 was found to activate recombinant p38 MAPk in LPS-treated neutrophils.
Of p38 MAPk isoforms studied, only p38alpha and p38delta were detected in neutrophils.
LPS stimulation selectively activated p38alpha.
Specific inhibitors of p38alpha MAPk blocked LPS-induced adhesion, nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- activation, and synthesis of tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB-.
Inhibition of p38alpha MAPk resulted in a transient decrease in TNF-alpha mRNA accumulation but persistent loss of TNF-alpha synthesis.
Inhibition of IL-4-inducible gene expression in human monocytes by type I and type II interferons.
The Th2-type cytokines, interleukin-4 -LRB- IL-4 -RRB- and interleukin-13 -LRB- IL-13 -RRB-, induce expression of a distinct subset of genes in human monocytes, including FcepsilonRIIb -LRB- CD23 -RRB-, 15-lipoxygenase, IL-1 receptor antagonist -LRB- IL-1ra -RRB-, and type I and type II IL-1 receptors -LRB- IL-1R -RRB-.
Type I interferons -LRB- IFN-alpha and IFN-beta -RRB- and type II interferon -LRB- IFN-gamma -RRB- inhibit induction of these genes by IL-4 and IL-13.
However, the mechanism by which IFNs mediate this inhibition has not been defined.
In this overview, we discuss the role of the transcription factor, STAT6 -LRB- signal transducer and activator of transcription-6 -RRB- in mediating IL-4 - and IL-13-induced gene expression in monocytes.
We also discuss our recent findings that type I and type II IFNs suppress IL-4 / IL-13-inducible gene expression by inhibiting tyrosine phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of STAT6.
The ability of type I and type II IFNs to inhibit IL-4 / IL-13-induced STAT6 activity is dose - and time-dependent, and is not unique to monocytes because IFNs induce the same effects in fibroblasts.
Inhibition of STAT6 activity is not evident unless cells are preincubated with IFN for at least 1 h before IL-4 stimulation.
Because STAT6 activation plays an essential role in IL-4 / IL-13-induced gene expression, the ability of IFN-beta and IFN-gamma to inhibit STAT6 activity provides an explanation for how IFNs can suppress IL-4 / IL-13-inducible gene expression.
Involvement of NF-kappaB p50/p65 heterodimer in activation of the human pro-interleukin-1beta gene at two subregions of the upstream enhancer element.
A region between-3134 and -2729 bp upstream from the transcription site of the human pro-interleukin 1beta -LRB- proIL-1beta -RRB- gene was identified as an LPS-responsive enhancer element.
In this study, the influence of the sequences located between -3134 and -2987 on the transcriptional activity of the proIL-1beta gene in LPS-stimulated Raw 264.7 cells was examined in detail.
Gel shift assay studies with synthetic oligonucleotides corresponding to partial sequences of the latter region and nuclear extracts from stimulated cells revealed specific protein binding sites between -3110 and -3090 and between -3079 and -3059.
These specific bindings were time and LPS dose dependent.
Mutation of either of the putative NF-kappaB-binding sites in the enhancer element decreased the LPS-stimulated transcriptional activity.
Copyright 1999 Academic Press.
Anti-rheumatic compound aurothioglucose inhibits tumor necrosis factor-alpha-induced HIV-1 replication in latently infected OM10 .1 and Ach2 cells.
NF-kappaB is a potent cellular activator of HIV-1 gene expression.
Down-regulation of NF-kappaB activation is known to inhibit HIV replication from the latently infected cells.
Gold compounds have been effectively used for many decades in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
We previously reported that gold compounds, especially aurothioglucose -LRB- AuTG -RRB- containing monovalent gold ion, inhibited the DNA-binding of NF-kappaB in vitro.
In this report we have examined the efficacy of the gold compound AuTG as an inhibitor of HIV replication in latently infected OM10 .1 and Ach2 cells.
Tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- - alpha-induced HIV-1 replication in OM10 .1 or Ach2 cells was significantly inhibited by non-cytotoxic doses of AuTG -LRB- > 10 microM in OM10 .1 cells and > 25 F.M in Ach2 cells -RRB-, while 25 microM of the counter-anion thioglucose -LRB- TG -RRB- or gold compound containing divalent gold ion, HAuCl3, had no effect.
The effect of AuTG on NF-kappaB-dependent gene expression was confirmed by a transient CAT assay.
Evidence for suppressed activity of the transcription factor NFAT1 at its proximal binding element P0 in the IL-4 promoter associated with enhanced IL-4 gene transcription in T cells of atopic patients.
Allergen-specific T cells in atopic patients are polarized IL-4-producing Th2 cells, promoting IgE synthesis by B cells.
The molecular basis for increased IL-4 gene expression in atopy is not fully understood.
IL-4 gene regulation in general involves the nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB- family of transcription factors, of which NFAT1 and NFAT2 are most prominent in peripheral T cells.
Recently, a unique inhibitory role of NFAT1 in IL-4 gene control was shown in the mouse.
In a series of electrophoretic mobility shift assays with protein extracts of highly polarized Th2 clones from atopics and Th1 clones from controls we compared DNA-binding activities at the two NFAT-binding elements P0 and P1 of the crucial proximal human IL-4 promoter.
At the most proximal P0 site, NFAT-containing complexes devoid of NFAT2 were readily inducible in the Th1 clones, but hardly or not in the Th2 clones.
In contrast, both in Th1 and Th2 clones NFAT-containing complexes were strongly inducible at the P1 site, consisting of NFAT2 and a P0-compatible NFAT activity, without apparent differences between Th1 and Th2 clones.
Like in Th2 clones, suppressed NFAT-P0 complex formation was observed also at the polyclonal level in peripheral blood mononuclear cells -LRB- PBMC -RRB- of three of five severe atopic dermatitis patients with strongly elevated serum IgE levels, but not in control PBMC.
Nuclear factor-kappa B activity in T cells from patients with rheumatic diseases : a preliminary report.
OBJECTIVE : The NF-kappa B/Rel family of transcription factors regulates the expression of many genes involved in the immune or inflammatory response at the transcriptional level.
METHODS : The DNA binding activity of these nucleoproteins was examined in purified synovial and peripheral T cells from patients with various chronic rheumatic diseases -LRB- 12 : four with rheumatoid arthritis ; five with spondyloarthropathies ; and three with osteoarthritis -RRB-.
RESULTS : Electrophoretic mobility shift assays disclosed two specific complexes bound to a NF-kappa B specific 32P-labelled oligonucleotide in nucleoproteins extracted from purified T cells isolated from synovial fluid and peripheral blood of patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
The complexes consisted of p50/p50 homodimers and p50/p65 heterodimers.
Increased NF-kappa B binding to DNA in synovial T cells was observed relative to peripheral T cells.
In non-rheumatoid arthritis, binding of NF-kappa B in synovial T cells was exclusively mediated by p50/p50 homodimers.
The activation of this nuclear factor is qualitatively different in rheumatoid synovial T cells to that in other forms of non-rheumatoid arthritis -LRB- for example, osteoarthritis, spondyloarthropathies -RRB-.
N-acetyl-L-cysteine inhibits primary human T cell responses at the dendritic cell level : association with NF-kappaB inhibition.
N-acetyl-L-cysteine -LRB- NAC -RRB- is an antioxidant molecule endowed with immunomodulatory properties.
To investigate the effect of NAC on the induction phase of T cell responses, we analyzed its action on human dendritic cells -LRB- DC -RRB- derived from adherent PBMC cultured with IL-4 and granulocyte-macrophage CSF.
We first found that NAC inhibited the constitutive as well as the LPS-induced activity of the transcription factor NF-kappaB.
In parallel, NAC was shown to down-regulate the production of cytokines by DC as well as their surface expression of HLA-DR, CD86 -LRB- B7-2 -RRB-, and CD40 molecules both at the basal state and upon LPS activation.
NAC also inhibited DC responses induced by CD40 engagement.
The inhibitory effects of NAC were not due to nonspecific toxicity as neither the viability of DC nor their mannose receptor-mediated endocytosis were modified by NAC.
Identification of upstream regulatory elements that repress expression of adult beta-like globin genes in a primitive erythroid environment.
Our investigations have focused on localizing cis-elements responsible for the down regulation of the adult beta-like globin genes -LRB- delta and beta -RRB- in immature, or primitive erythroid tissues.
We studied their activity after transfection into K562 cells, an erythroleukemia cell line with an embryonic-fetal phenotype.
In CAT reporter constructions no appreciable level of CAT activity was supported by the beta globin promoter, and only low level activity by the delta promoter.
Truncation of the beta globin promoter led to a 2-3 fold increase in promoter activity.
In contrast, deletion of the upstream portion of the delta promoter led to a 10 fold decrease in expression.
Coupling of the upstream beta globin sequence from approximately -500 to -250 bp to the truncated delta promoter fragment led to complete extinction of transcription activity, consistent with a negative regulatory effect of the beta globin gene upstream element -LRB- s -RRB-.
Fusion of the upstream portion of the delta promoter to the truncated beta globin promoter yielded a modest increase in promoter strength relative to the truncated beta gene promoter, indicating the presence of a positive transcriptional element -LRB- s -RRB- in the upstream delta globin regulatory region.
Site-directed mutagenesis of binding sites for the repressor proteins BP1 and BP2 in the upstream portion of the beta globin gene flanking region led to a 4-6 fold increase in promoter activity.
DNase I footprinting of the upstream delta-globin region revealed protected sequences corresponding to consensus binding sites for GATA-1 and BP2.
Reduction of tumour necrosis factor alpha expression and signalling in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with thalassaemia or sickle cell anaemia upon treatment with desferrioxamine.
The authors have previously demonstrated that in vitro exposure of mononuclear cells to DFX decreases the bioavailability of tumour necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- which has a stimulatory effect on HIV-1 replication.
In this study, therefore, TNF-alpha bioavailability from mononuclear cells isolated from 10 patients with thalassaemia or sickle cell anaemia given DFX as compared to 10 untreated subjects has been evaluated.
Evidence is presented showing that DFX treatment reduces TNF-alpha bioavailability -LRB- P < 0.05 -RRB- by inhibiting its steady state -LRB- P < 0.05 -RRB- and by enhancing its inactivation through binding to soluble TNF-alpha receptor type II -LRB- P < 0.05 -RRB-.
We also show that DFX treatment limits the in vivo activation of NF-kappaB, a transcription factor involved in both TNF-alpha gene transcription and TNF-alpha signalling -LRB- P < 0.005 -RRB-.
We conclude that TNF-alpha bioavailability and signalling are impaired in patients upon DFX treatment.
Copyright 1999 Academic Press.
Involvement of adenylate cyclase and p70 -LRB- S6 -RRB- - kinase activation in IL-10 up-regulation in human monocytes by gp41 envelope protein of human immunodeficiency virus type 1.
Our previous results show that recombinant gp41 -LRB- aa565-647 -RRB-, the extracellular domain of HIV-1 transmembrane glycoprotein, stimulates interleukin-10 -LRB- IL-10 -RRB- production in human monocytes.
gp41 induced cAMP accumulation in monocytes in a time - and concentration-dependent manner and the adenylate cyclase inhibitor SQ 22536 suppressed gp41-induced IL-10 production in monocytes.
In contrast, gp41 failed to stimulate NF-kappaB binding activity in as much as no NF-kappaB bound to the main NF-kappaB-binding site 2 of the IL-10 promoter after addition of gp41.
We also examined the involvement of other signal transduction pathways.
Specific inhibitors of p70 -LRB- S6 -RRB- - kinase -LRB- rapamycin -RRB-, and Gi protein -LRB- pertussis toxin -RRB-, prevented induction of IL-10 production by gp41 in monocytes, while inhibitors of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase -LRB- PI 3-kinase -RRB- -LRB- wortmannin -RRB- and mitogen-activated protein kinase -LRB- MAPK -RRB- pathway -LRB- PD 98059 -RRB- did not.
Estrone potentiates myeloid cell differentiation : a role for 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase in modulating hemopoiesis.
Hormones such as 1 alpha, 25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 -LRB- D3 -RRB-, all-trans retinoic acid, and 9-cis retinoic acid stimulate differentiation of myeloid progenitor cells via their interaction with specific hormone receptors.
However, the sensitivity of cells to these agents is not merely governed by the expression of their receptors and the availability of ligand to bind them.
In this study we examined the influence of local estrogen metabolism on the differentiation of HL60 cells and normal primitive myeloid progenitor cells.
Quantitative thin-layer chromatography -LRB- TLC -RRB- analyses showed that HL60 and normal cells are able to generate estrone -LRB- E1 -RRB- from estradiol -LRB- E2 -RRB-.
Neither cell population generated significant amounts of E2 from E1.
Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and Northern analyses confirmed that normal and leukemic myeloid progenitor cells expressed mRNA for the type I and IV isoforms of 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase.
Conversion of E2 to E1 was upregulated within 24 hours when HL60 cells were treated with either all-trans retinoic acid or D3 at doses that induce their differentiation toward neutrophils or monocytes, respectively.
Similarly, D3-induced monocyte differentiation of normal myeloid progenitor cells was associated with increased capacity to generate E1 from E2.
When HL60 cells or normal myeloid progenitor cells were exposed to exogenous E1 they became more sensitive to the differentiation-inducing effects of D3.
Data presented provide further evidence for the local modulation of myelopoiesis by intracrine mechanisms.
Phosphorylation of TRAF2 inhibits binding to the CD40 cytoplasmic domain.
TRAF2 is a signal transducing adaptor molecule which binds to the CD40 cytoplasmic domain.
We have found that it is phosphorylated, predominantly on serine residues, when transiently overexpressed in 293 cells.
Furthermore, the phosphorylation status of TRAF2 had significant effects on the ability of the protein to bind to CD40, as evidenced by our observations that the CD40 cytoplasmic domain interacted preferentially with underphosphorylated TRAF2 and that phosphatase treatment significantly enhanced the binding of TRAF2 to CD40.
Copyright 1999 Academic Press.
Cobalt chloride-induced signaling in endothelium leading to the augmented adherence of sickle red blood cells and transendothelial migration of monocyte-like HL-60 cells is blocked by PAF-receptor antagonist.
In response to hypoxia, sickle red blood cells -LRB- SS RBC -RRB- and leukocytes exhibit increased adherence to the vascular endothelium, while diapedesis of leukocytes through the blood vessel increases.
However, the cellular signaling pathway -LRB- s -RRB- caused by hypoxia is poorly understood.
We utilized CoCl2 as a mimetic molecule for hypoxia to study cellular signaling pathways.
We found that in human umbilical vein endothelial cells -LRB- HUVEC -RRB-, CoCl2 at 2 mM concentration induced the surface expression of a subset of CAMs -LRB- VCAM-1 -RRB- and activation of transcription factor NF-kappaB in the nuclear extracts of HUVEC.
Inhibitors of MAP kinase -LRB- PD98059 -RRB- or platelet-activating factor -LRB- PAF -RRB- - receptor antagonist -LRB- CV3988 -RRB- inhibited the CoCl2-induced NF-kappaB activation and VCAM-1 expression.
Augmented expression of VCAM-1 led to increased SS RBC adhesion, inhibitable by a VCAM-1 antibody.
Additionally, CoCl2 caused a two - to threefold increase in the rate of transendothelial migration of monocyte-like HL-60 cells and a twentyfold increase in phosphorylation of platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecules -LRB- PECAM-1 -RRB-.
The transendothelial migration of monocytes was inhibited by an antibody to PECAM-1.
Both phosphorylation of PECAM-1 and transendothelial migration of monocytes in response to CoCl2 were inhibited by protein kinase inhibitor -LRB- GF109203X -RRB- and augmented by protein phosphatase inhibitor -LRB- Calyculin A -RRB-.
We conclude that PAF-receptor antagonist inhibits the CoCl2 - or hypoxia-induced increase in the adhesion of SS RBC, PECAM-1 phosphorylation, and the concomitant transendothelial migration of monocytes.
Molecular mechanisms of neutrophil-endothelial cell adhesion induced by redox imbalance.
Previous studies have implicated a role for intracellular thiols in the activation of nuclear factor-kappaB and transcriptional regulation of endothelial cell adhesion molecules.
Treatment of human umbilical vein endothelial cell -LRB- HUVEC -RRB- monolayers for 6 hours with 0.2 mmol/L diamide and 1 mmol/L buthionine sulfoximine -LRB- BSO -RRB- decreased GSH levels and increased the ratio of GSSG to GSH without cell toxicity.
These redox changes are similar to those observed with anoxia/reoxygenation.
Diamide plus BSO-induced thiol/disulfide imbalance was associated with a biphasic increase in neutrophil adhesion to HUVECs with peak responses observed at 15 minutes -LRB- phase 1 -RRB- and 240 minutes -LRB- phase 2 -RRB-.
N-Acetylcysteine treatment attenuated neutrophil adhesion in both phases, which indicated a role for GSH in the adhesion responses.
Interestingly, phase 1 adhesion was inversely correlated with GSH levels but not with the GSSG/GSH ratio, whereas phase 2 neutrophil adhesion was positively correlated with GSSG/GSH ratio but not with GSH levels.
Intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and P-selectin-specific monoclonal antibodies attenuated the increased neutrophil adhesion during both phases, whereas an anti-E-selectin monoclonal antibody also attenuated the phase 2 response.
Pretreatment with actinomycin D and cycloheximide or with competing ds-oligonucleotides that contained nuclear factor-kappaB or activator protein-1 cognate DNA sequences significantly attenuated the phase 2 response, which implicated a role for de novo protein synthesis.
Surface expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1, P-selectin, and E-selectin on HUVECs correlated with the phase 1 and 2 neutrophil adhesion responses.
This study demonstrates that changes in endothelial cell GSSG/GSH cause transcription-independent and transcription-dependent surface expression of different endothelial cell adhesion molecules, which leads to a 2-phase neutrophil-endothelial adhesion response.
Decreased proteasome-mediated degradation in T cells from the elderly : A role in immune senescence.
Induction of NFkappaB is a highly regulated process requiring phosphorylation, ubiquitination, and proteasome-mediated degradation of the cytosolic inhibitor IkappaBalpha.
Analyses of the regulation of IkappaBalpha in TNF-alpha-treated T lymphocytes from young and elderly donors revealed severely compromised degradation of IkappaBalpha in T cells from the elderly.
Examination of activation-induced phosphorylation and ubiquitination of IkappaBalpha did not demonstrate any significant age-related alterations.
However, examination of proteasome activity in these T cells using fluorogenic peptide assays revealed a significant age-related decline in chymotryptic activity.
Copyright 1999 Academic Press.
Impaired fetal thymocyte development after efficient adenovirus-mediated inhibition of NF-kappa B activation.
We introduce a new experimental system combining adenovirus-mediated gene transfer and fetal thymic organ culture -LRB- FTOC -RRB-.
This system allowed us to efficiently express in developing thymocytes a mutant form of the NF-kappa B inhibitor I kappa B alpha -LRB- mut-I kappa B -RRB- and to study the maturation defects occurring when NF-kappa B activation is inhibited during fetal development.
Fetal thymocytes infected with adenovirus containing mut-I kappa B were found to develop normally until the CD44-CD25 +, CD4-CD8 - double-negative stage, while production of more mature double-positive and single-positive populations was strongly decreased.
Proliferation, as measured by the percentage of cells in cycle appeared normal, as did rearrangement and expression of the TCR beta-chain.
However, apoptosis was much higher in FTOC infected with adenovirus containing mut-I kappa B than in FTOC infected with a control virus.
IL-2-mediated cell cycle progression and inhibition of apoptosis does not require NF-kappa B or activating protein-1 activation in primary human T cells.
The IL-2 growth hormone is the major growth factor of activated T lymphocytes during a developing immune response.
IL-2 is required not only for cell cycle progression but also to protect Ag-activated T cells from programmed cell death.
In several cell types, activation of NF-kappa B and/or activating protein-1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB- has been demonstrated to be extremely important in blocking apoptosis.
The current study clearly demonstrates that IL-2 does not induce I kappa B alpha degradation or NF-kappa B activation in primary human T cells that respond to IL-2 by entering the cell cycle and avoiding apoptosis.
Similarly, IL-2 neither activates JNK nor increases AP-1 binding activity to a consensus o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB- response element.
On the other hand, the growth factor does induce the activation of STAT3 and STAT5 in these cells, as has been previously demonstrated.
These data show that neither NF-kappa B nor AP-1 activation is required for IL-2-mediated survival or cell cycle progression in activated primary human T cells.
Stimulation of CD40 on immunogenic human malignant melanomas augments their cytotoxic T lymphocyte-mediated lysis and induces apoptosis.
Here, we report the functional expression of CD40 on human malignant melanomas -LRB- MMs -RRB-.
Comparison of tumor specimen from MM precursor lesions, primary tumors, and metastases revealed that CD40 surface expression is down-regulated during tumor progression.
CD40 expression was confirmed in 7 human MM cell lines established from immunogenic primary tumors or metastases, whereas 11 cell lines established from advanced stages were CD40 negative.
CD40 expression could be enhanced in CD40-positive MM by stimulation with IFN-gamma and tumor necrosis factor-alpha but not by interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -1 beta or CD40 triggering.
CD40 ligation on MM by CD40L-transfected murine L-cells or by a soluble CD40L fusion protein up-regulated their expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and MHC class I and class II molecules and their secretion of IL-6, IL-8, tumor necrosis factor-a, and granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor and also induced a rapid activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor kappaB.
Furthermore, CD40 ligation of a HLA-A2 +, MelanA/MART1 + MM cell line enhanced its susceptibility to specific lysis by a HLA-A2-restricted, MelanA/MART -1 - specific CTL clone.
Finally, CD40 ligation induced growth inhibition and apoptosis in MM.
Differential regulation of 4E-BP1 and 4E-BP2, two repressors of translation initiation, during human myeloid cell differentiation.
Human myeloid differentiation is accompanied by a decrease in cell proliferation.
Because the translation rate is an important determinant of cell proliferation, we have investigated translation initiation during human myeloid cell differentiation using the HL-60 promyelocytic leukemia cell line and the U-937 monoblastic cell line.
A decrease in the translation rate is observed when the cells are induced to differentiate along the monocytic/macrophage pathway or along the granulocytic pathway.
The inhibition in protein synthesis correlates with specific regulation of two repressors of translation initiation, 4E-BP1 and 4E-BP2.
Induction of HL-60 and U-937 cell differentiation into monocytes/macrophages by IFN-gamma or PMA results in a dephosphorylation and consequent activation of 4E-BP1.
Dephosphorylation of 4E-BP1 was also observed when U-937 cells were induced to differentiate into monocytes/macrophages following treatment with retinoic acid or DMSO.
In contrast, treatment of HL-60 cells with retinoic acid or DMSO, which results in a granulocytic differentiation of these cells, decreases 4E-BP1 amount without affecting its phosphorylation and strongly increases 4E-BP2 amount.
Taken together, these data provide evidence for differential regulation of the translational machinery during human myeloid differentiation, specific to the monocytic/macrophage pathway or to the granulocytic pathway.
Apoptosis-resistant T cells have a deficiency in NF-kappaB-mediated induction of Fas ligand transcription.
Apoptosis induced through the TCR in CD4 + T cells is mostly mediated by the inducible expression of Fas ligand -LRB- FasL -RRB- as a primary event leading to the commitment to death.
To gain a better understanding of the transcriptional events that regulate this expression, we took advantage of our previously described mutant Jurkat cells.
These cells are deficient in FasL expression and apoptosis induced upon TCR triggering, although their cytokine -LRB- IL-2 and IFN-gamma -RRB- production is normal.
Here we show that both a FasL - and a consensus NF-kappaB - reporter construct are inefficiently induced in these cells compared to wild-type cells.
In addition, we demonstrate that the inducible transcriptional activity of the FasL reporter is abolished by specific inhibitors of NF-kappaB activation.
Thus, we could trace the deficit of the mutant cells to an inefficient NF-kappaB activation, evidencing a relevant role for NF-kappaB in the regulation of FasL expression in activated T cells.
Constitutive activation of NF-kappaB in primary adult T-cell leukemia cells.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type I -LRB- HTLV-I -RRB- is an etiologic agent of adult T-cell leukemia -LRB- ATL -RRB-.
However, the HTLV-I genes including Tax are not expressed significantly in primary leukemic cells from ATL patients.
In this study, we examined the basis for NF-kappaB activation in freshly isolated leukemic cells from ATL patients.
We found that leukemic cells from ATL patients, like HTLV-I-infected T-cell lines, display constitutive NF-kappaB DNA binding activity and increased degradation of IkappaBalpha -LRB- an inhibitor of NF-kappaB -RRB-.
Whereas the NF-kappaB binding activity in Tax-expressing T-cell lines consisted mostly of p50/c-Rel, fresh ATL samples contained p50/p50 and p50/p65 heterodimers.
One T-cell line derived from ATL leukemic cells, TL-Om1, displayed constitutive NF-kappaB activity, as well as enhanced degradation of IkappaBalpha, despite the lack of detectable Tax expression.
Interestingly, the NF-kappaB in TL-Om1 consists of p50/p50 and p50/p65 like that in fresh primary leukemic cells.
Evidence for distinct intracellular signaling pathways in CD34 + progenitor to dendritic cell differentiation from a human cell line model.
Intracellular signals that mediate differentiation of pluripotent hemopoietic progenitors to dendritic cells -LRB- DC -RRB- are largely undefined.
We have previously shown that protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- activation -LRB- with phorbol ester -LRB- PMA -RRB- alone -RRB- specifically induces differentiation of primary human CD34 + hemopoietic progenitor cells -LRB- HPC -RRB- to mature DC.
We now find that cytokine-driven -LRB- granulocyte-macrophage CSF and TNF-alpha -RRB- CD34 + HPC -- > DC differentiation is preferentially blocked by inhibitors of PKC activation.
To further identify intracellular signals and downstream events important in CD34 + HPC -- > DC differentiation we have characterized a human leukemic cell line model of this process.
Phenotypic DC characteristics of KG1 dendritic-like cells include morphology -LRB- loosely adherent cells with long neurite processes -RRB-, MHC I + / MHC IIbright/CD83 + / CD86 + / CD14 - surface Ag expression, and RelB and DC-CK1 gene expression.
Functional DC characteristics include fluid phase macromolecule uptake -LRB- FITC-dextran -RRB- and activation of resting T cells.
NF-kappaB regulates Fas/APO -1 / CD95 - and TCR - mediated apoptosis of T lymphocytes.
The maintenance of lymphocyte homeostasis by apoptosis is a critical regulatory mechanism in the normal immune system.
The transcription factor NF-kappaB has been shown to play a role in protecting cells against death mediated by TNFWe show here that NF-kappaB also has a role in regulating Fas/APO -1 / CD95-mediated death, a major pathway of peripheral T cell death.
Transfection of Jurkat cells with the NF-kappaB subunits p50 and p65 confers resistance against Fas-mediated apoptosis.
Reciprocally, inhibition of NF-kappaB activation by a soluble peptide inhibitor or a dominant form of the NF-kappaB inhibitor, IkappaB, makes the cells more susceptible to Fas-mediated apoptosis.
Furthermore, inhibition of NF-kappaB activation by a soluble peptide inhibitor rendered a T cell hybridoma more susceptible to TCR-mediated apoptosis.
Correspondingly, transfection of p50 and p65 provided considerable protection from TCR-mediated apoptosis.
These observations were corroborated by studies on Fas-mediated death in primary T cells.
Concanavalin A-activated cycling T cell blasts from mice that are transgenic for the dominant IkappaB molecule have increased sensitivity to Fas-mediated apoptosis, associated with a down-regulation of NF-kappaB complexes in the nucleus.
In addition, blocking TNF, itself a positive regulator of NF-kappaB, with neutralizing antibodies renders the cells more susceptible to anti-Fas-mediated apoptosis.
Activation of NF-kappaB in Mycobacterium tuberculosis - induced interleukin-2 receptor expression in mononuclear phagocytes.
Soluble interleukin-2 receptor-alpha -LRB- IL-2Ralpha -RRB- has been reported to be increased in the sera of patients with advanced tuberculosis, and levels decline after therapy in accordance with improvement of radiologic findings.
We investigated expression of the IL-2Ralpha in bronchoalveolar lavage -LRB- BAL -RRB- cells in active pulmonary tuberculosis, and evaluated the mechanism Mycobacterium tuberculosis induces in the IL-2Ralpha using the THP-1 mononuclear phagocyte cell line.
We found IL-2Ralpha expression to be increased in BAL cells from involved sites of active pulmonary tuberculosis.
Expression of the alpha-chain of IL-2Ralpha on peripheral blood monocytes -LRB- PBM -RRB- was induced by M. tuberculosis by flow cytometry evaluation.
Northern analysis demonstrated increased IL-2Ralpha gene expression after stimulation with M. tuberculosis which was further induced by interferon-gamma -LRB- IFN-gamma -RRB-.
The IL-2Ralpha promoter containing the nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- site was transcriptionally induced by M. tuberculosis and this NF-kappaB site could confer inducibility to a heterologous herpes thymidine kinase -LRB- TK -RRB- promoter by M. tuberculosis.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays -LRB- EMSAs -RRB- revealed specific binding of nuclear protein to the NF-kappaB site upon induction with M. tuberculosis.
Using antibodies against the p50 and p65 subunits of NF-kappaB in EMSAs, the involvement of both p50 and p65 proteins was further demonstrated.
-LSB- Corticoids and allergy -RSB-.
Inflammation is constantly observed in allergic reactions.
Corticosteroids are most effective in preventing the late phase of allergic reaction.
The action of glucocorticosteroids is mediated through glucocorticoid receptors present in the cellular cytoplasm.
When activated, glucocorticoid receptors form a dimer and bind to DNA after migration into the nucleus.
Glucocorticoid receptors are also able to interact with transcriptional factors such as AP-1 -LRB- activator protein-1 -RRB- of NF-kappa B -LRB- nuclear factor-kappa B -RRB-.
Through these actions glucocorticosteroids are susceptible to modify functions of cells involved in the allergic inflammatory response.
They are in particular able to inhibit most of the pro-inflammatory functions of the eosinophils.
Role of cellular tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors in NF-kappaB activation and lymphocyte transformation by herpesvirus Saimiri STP.
The STP oncoproteins of the herpesvirus saimiri -LRB- HVS -RRB- subgroup A strain 11 and subgroup C strain 488 are now found to be stably associated with tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor -LRB- TRAF -RRB- 1, 2, or 3.
Mutational analyses identified residues of PXQXT/S in STP-A11 as critical for TRAF association.
In addition, a somewhat divergent region of STP-C488 is critical for TRAF association.
Mutational analysis also revealed that STP-C488 induced NF-kappaB activation that was correlated with its ability to associate with TRAFs.
The HVS STP-C488 P10 -- > R mutant was deficient in human T-lymphocyte transformation to interleukin-2-independent growth but showed wild-type phenotype for marmoset T-lymphocyte transformation in vitro and in vivo.
The STP-C488 P10 -- > R mutant was also defective in Rat-1 fibroblast transformation, and fibroblast cell transformation was blocked by a TRAF2 dominant-negative mutant.
These data implicate TRAFs in STP-C488-mediated transformation of human lymphocytes and rodent fibroblasts.
Regulation of the megakaryocytic glycoprotein IX promoter by the oncogenic Ets transcription factor Fli-1.
Glycoprotein -LRB- GP -RRB- IX is a subunit of the von Willebrand receptor, GPIb-V-IX, which mediates adhesion of platelets to the subendothelium of damaged blood vessels.
Previous characterization of the GPIX promoter identified a functional Ets site that, when disrupted, reduced promoter activity.
However, the Ets protein -LRB- s -RRB- that regulated GPIX promoter expression was unknown.
In this study, transient cotransfection of several GPIX promoter/reporter constructs into 293T kidney fibroblasts with a Fli-1 expression vector shows that the oncogenic protein Fli-1 can transactivate the GPIX promoter when an intact GPIX Ets site is present.
In addition, Fli-1 binding of the GPIX Ets site was identified in antibody supershift experiments in nuclear extracts derived from hematopoietic human erythroleukemia cells.
Comparative studies showed that Fli-1 was also able to transactivate the GPIbalpha and, to a lesser extent, the GPIIb promoter.
Immunoblot analysis identified Fli-1 protein in lysates derived from platelets.
In addition, expression of Fli-1 was identified immunohistochemically in megakaryocytes derived from CD34 -LRB- + -RRB- cells treated with the megakaryocyte differentiation and proliferation factor, thrombopoietin.
Inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2 expression by 4-trifluoromethyl derivatives of salicylate, triflusal, and its deacetylated metabolite, 2-hydroxy-4-trifluoromethylbenzoic acid.
The therapeutic potential of drugs that block the induction of cyclooxygenase-2 has been emphasized.
When two 4-trifluoromethyl salicylate derivatives -LSB- 2-acetoxy-4-trifluoromethyl-benzoic acid -LRB- triflusal -RRB- and its deacetylated metabolite 2-hydroxy-4-trifluoromethylbenzoic acid -LRB- HTB -RRB- -RSB- were compared with aspirin and sodium salicylate as cyclooxygenase-2 -LRB- COX-2 -RRB- inhibitors, we observed that in bacterial lipopolysaccharide-activated human blood, triflusal, aspirin, and HTB, but not sodium salicylate, inhibited COX-2-mediated prostaglandin E2 -LRB- PGE2 -RRB- production -LRB- IC50 = 0.16, 0.18, 0.39, and > 10 mM, respectively -RRB-.
However, only triflusal and aspirin inhibited purified COX-2 enzyme.
To test this apparent discrepancy, we realized that HTB and triflusal -LRB- but neither aspirin nor salicylate -RRB- produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of COX-2 protein expression in peripheral human mononuclear cells.
This observation was further confirmed in a rat air pouch model in vivo, in which both aspirin and triflusal inhibited PGE2 production -LRB- ID50 = 18.9 and 11.4 mg/kg p.o., respectively -RRB- but only triflusal-treated animals showed a decrease in COX-2 expression.
Thus, in addition to inhibiting the COX-2 activity at therapeutic concentrations, triflusal is able to block through its metabolite HTB the expression of new enzyme, and hence the resumption of PGE2 synthesis.
Essential role of alveolar macrophages in intrapulmonary activation of NF-kappaB.
Acute inflammatory injury in rat lung induced by deposition of immunoglobulin G immune complexes requires expression of cytokines and chemokines as well as activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappaB.
There is little direct evidence regarding the role of alveolar macrophages in these activation events.
In the present studies, rat lungs were depleted of alveolar macrophages by airway instillation of liposome-encapsulated dichloromethylene diphosphonate.
These procedures, which greatly reduced the number of retrievable alveolar macrophages, suppressed activation of lung NF-kappaB in the inflammatory model.
In addition, bronchoalveolar lavage levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- and the CXC chemokine, macrophage inflammatory protein-2, were substantially reduced.
In parallel, upregulation of the lung vascular adhesion molecule, intercellular adhesion molecule-1, was greatly reduced by intrapulmonary instillation of phosphonate-containing liposomes.
Neutrophil accumulation and development of lung injury were also substantially diminished.
Lung instillation of TNF-alpha in alveolar macrophage-depleted rats restored the NF-kappaB activation response in whole lung.
PGG-glucan, a soluble beta - -LRB- 1,3 -RRB- - glucan, enhances the oxidative burst response, microbicidal activity, and activates an NF-kappa B-like factor in human PMN : evidence for a glycosphingolipid beta - -LRB- 1,3 -RRB- - glucan receptor.
PGG-Glucan, a soluble beta - -LRB- 1,6 -RRB- - branched beta - -LRB- 1,3 -RRB- - linked glucose homopolymer derived from the cell wall of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, is an immunomodulator which enhances leukocyte anti-infective activity and enhances myeloid and megakaryocyte progenitor proliferation.
Incubation of human whole blood with PGG-Glucan significantly enhanced the oxidative burst response of subsequently isolated blood leukocytes to both soluble and particulate activators in a dose-dependent manner, and increased leukocyte microbicidal activity.
No evidence for inflammatory cytokine production was obtained under these conditions.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays demonstrated that PGG-Glucan induced the activation of an NF-kappaB-like nuclear transcription factor in purified human neutrophils.
The binding of 3H-PGG-Glucan to human leukocyte membranes was specific, concentration-dependent, saturable, and high affinity -LRB- Kd approximately 6 nM -RRB-.
Expression of IkappaBalpha in the nucleus of human peripheral blood T lymphocytes.
However, I -LRB- kappa -RRB- B -LRB- alpha -RRB- has also been detected in the nucleus of cell lines and when overexpressed by transient transfection.
To gain better insight into the potential role of nuclear I -LRB- kappa -RRB- B -LRB- alpha -RRB- in a physiological context we have analysed its presence in the nucleus of human peripheral blood T lymphocytes -LRB- PBL -RRB-.
We demonstrate the nuclear localization of I -LRB- kappa -RRB- B -LRB- alpha -RRB- in PBL by different techniques : Western blot, indirect immunofluorescence and electron microscopy.
Low levels of nuclear I -LRB- kappa -RRB- B -LRB- alpha -RRB- were detected in resting cells whereas a superinduction was obtained after PMA activation.
The nuclear pool of I -LRB- kappa -RRB- B -LRB- alpha -RRB- showed a higher stability than cytosolic I -LRB- kappa -RRB- B -LRB- alpha -RRB- and was partially independent of the resynthesis of the protein.
Unexpectedly, the presence of nuclear I -LRB- kappa -RRB- B -LRB- alpha -RRB- did not inhibit NF-kappaB binding to DNA and this phenomenon was not due to the presence of IkappaBbeta at the nuclear level.
Immunoprecipitation experiments failed to demonstrate an association between nuclear I -LRB- kappa -RRB- B -LRB- alpha -RRB- and NF-kappaB proteins.
NF-kappaB functions as both a proapoptotic and antiapoptotic regulatory factor within a single cell type.
Recently NF-kappaB has been shown to have both proapoptotic and antiapoptotic functions.
In T cell hybridomas, both T cell activators and glucocorticoids induce apoptosis.
Here we show that blockade of NF-kappaB activity, using a dominant negative IkappaBalpha, has opposite effects on these two apoptotic signals.
Treatment with PMA plus ionomycin -LRB- P/I -RRB- results in the upregulation of Fas Ligand -LRB- FasL -RRB- and induction of apoptosis.
Inhibition of NF-kappaB activity inhibits the P/I mediated induction of FasL mRNA and decreases the level of apoptosis in these cultures, thus establishing NF-kappaB as a proapoptotic factor in this context.
Conversely, inhibition of NF-kappaB confers a tenfold increase in glucocorticoid mediated apoptosis, establishing that NF-kappaB also functions as an antiapoptotic factor.
We conclude that NF-kappaB is a context-dependent apoptosis regulator.
3-deazaadenosine, a S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase inhibitor, has dual effects on NF-kappaB regulation.
Inhibition of NF-kappaB transcriptional activity and promotion of IkappaBalpha degradation.
Previously we reported that 3-deazaadenosine -LRB- DZA -RRB-, a potent inhibitor and substrate for S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase inhibits bacterial lipopolysaccharide-induced transcription of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1beta in mouse macrophage RAW 264.7 cells.
In this study, we demonstrate the effects of DZA on nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- regulation.
DZA inhibits the transcriptional activity of NF-kappaB through the hindrance of p65 -LRB- Rel-A -RRB- phosphorylation without reduction of its nuclear translocation and DNA binding activity.
The inhibitory effect of DZA on NF-kappaB transcriptional activity is potentiated by the addition of homocysteine.
Taken together, DZA promotes the proteolytic degradation of IkappaBalpha, but not IkappaBbeta, resulting in an increase of DNA binding activity of NF-kappaB in the nucleus in the absence of its transcriptional activity in RAW 264.7 cells.
The reduction of IkappaBalpha by DZA is neither involved in IkappaB kinase complex activation nor modulated by the addition of homocysteine.
Downregulation of Wilms' tumor gene -LRB- WT1 -RRB- is not a prerequisite for erythroid or megakaryocytic differentiation of the leukemic cell line K562.
The Wilms' tumor gene -LRB- WT1 -RRB- encodes a transcription factor of the zinc finger type.
A high expression of WT1 has been detected in a range of acute leukemias, and WT1 is downregulated during induced differentiation of some leukemic cell lines.
Overexpression of WT1 in some myeloid cell lines confers resistance to differentiation induction.
In this study, each of the four different isoforms of WT1 was constitutively overexpressed in the leukemic cell line K562.
K562 cells express endogenous WT1, which is downregulated as a response to induced differentiation along the erythroid and megakaryocytic pathways.
We now demonstrate that a forced exogenous expression of the four different isoforms of WT1 in K562 does not affect the differentiation response, as judged by accumulation of hemoglobin in response to hemin or the expression of megakaryocytic cell surface markers in response to 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB-.
We conclude that downregulation of WT1 during induced differentiation of K562 cells is not a prerequisite for erythroid or megakaryocytic differentiation of these cells.
GATA-1 and erythropoietin cooperate to promote erythroid cell survival by regulating bcl-xL expression.
The transcription factor GATA-1 is essential for normal erythropoiesis.
By examining in vitro-differentiated embryonic stem cells, we showed previously that in the absence of GATA-1, committed erythroid precursors fail to complete maturation and instead undergo apoptosis.
Here we report that in erythroid cells, GATA-1 strongly induces the expression of the anti-apoptotic protein bcl-xL, but not the related proteins bcl-2 and mcl-1.
Consistent with a role for bcl-xL in mediating GATA-1-induced erythroid cell survival, in vitro-differentiated bcl-xL - / - embryonic stem cells fail to generate viable mature definitive erythroid cells, a phenotype resembling that of GATA-1 gene disruption.
In addition, we show that erythropoietin, which is also required for erythroid cell survival, cooperates with GATA-1 to stimulate bcl-xL gene expression and to maintain erythroid cell viability during terminal maturation.
Signaling events induced by lipopolysaccharide-activated toll-like receptor 2.
Human Toll-like receptor 2 -LRB- TLR2 -RRB- is a signaling receptor that responds to LPS and activates NF-kappaB.
Here, we investigate further the events triggered by TLR2 in response to LPS.
We show that TLR2 associates with the high-affinity LPS binding protein membrane CD14 to serve as an LPS receptor complex, and that LPS treatment enhances the oligomerization of TLR2.
Concomitant with receptor oligomerization, the IL-1R-associated kinase -LRB- IRAK -RRB- is recruited to the TLR2 complex.
Moreover, both deletion mutants could still form complexes with wild-type TLR2 and act in a dominant-negative -LRB- DN -RRB- fashion to block TLR2-mediated signal transduction.
DN constructs of myeloid differentiation protein, IRAK, TNF receptor-associated factor 6, and NF-kappaB-inducing kinase, when coexpressed with TLR2, abrogate TLR2-mediated NF-kappaB activation.
Activation of the Janus kinase 3-STAT5a pathway after CD40 triggering of human monocytes but not of resting B cells.
CD40/CD40 ligand interactions play a key role in the immune responses of B lymphocytes, monocytes, and dendritic cells.
The signal transduction events triggered by cross-linking of the CD40 receptor have been widely studied in B cell lines, but little is known about signaling following CD40 stimulation of monocytes and resting tonsillar B cells.
Therefore, we studied the CD40 pathway in highly purified human monocytes and resting B cells.
After CD40 triggering, a similar activation of the NF-kappaB -LRB- but not of the AP-1 -RRB- transcription factor complex occurred in both cell preparations.
However, the components of the NF-kappaB complexes were different in monocytes and B cells, because p50 is part of the NF-kappaB complex induced by CD40 triggering in both monocytes and B cells, whereas p65 was only induced in B cells.
In contrast, although the Janus kinase 3 tyrosine kinase was associated with CD40 molecules in both monocytes and resting B cells, Janus kinase 3 phosphorylation induction was observed only in CD40-activated monocytes, with subsequent induction of STAT5a DNA binding activity in the nucleus.
This observation is consistent with the detection of normal CD40-induced monocyte activation in patients with CD40 ligand + hyper IgM syndrome in whom a defect in CD40-induced B cell activation has been reported.
STAT1 activation during monocyte to macrophage maturation : role of adhesion molecules.
Human monocytes isolated from peripheral blood of healthy donors show a time-dependent differentiation into macrophages upon in vitro cultivation, closely mimicking their in vivo migration and maturation into extravascular tissues.
The mediator -LRB- s -RRB- of this maturation process has not been yet defined.
We investigated the involvement of signal transducers and activators of transcription -LRB- STAT -RRB- factors in this phenomenon and reported the specific, time-dependent, activation of STAT1 protein starting at day 0/1 of cultivation and maximally expressed at day 5.
STAT1 activity was evident on the STAT binding sequences -LRB- SBE -RRB- present in the promoters of genes which are up-regulated during monocyte to macrophage maturation such as FcgammaRI and ICAM-1, and in the promoter of the transcription factor IFN regulatory factor-1.
Moreover, the effect of cell adhesion to fibronectin or laminin was studied to investigate mechanisms involved in STAT1 activation.
Compared with monocytes adherent on plastic surfaces, freshly isolated cells allowed to adhere either to fibronectin - or laminin-coated flasks exhibited an increased STAT1 binding activity both in control and in IFN-gamma-treated cells.
The molecular events leading to enhanced STAT1 activation and cytokine responsiveness concerned both Y701 and S727 STAT1 phosphorylation.
Exogenous addition of transforming growth factor-beta, which exerts an inhibitory effect on some monocytic differentiation markers, inhibited macrophage maturation, integrin expression and STAT1 binding activity.
Inhibition of NF-kappa B activity in human T lymphocytes induces caspase-dependent apoptosis without detectable activation of caspase-1 and -3.
NF-kappa B is involved in the transcriptional control of various genes that act as extrinsic and intrinsic survival factors for T cells.
Our findings show that suppression of NF-kappa B activity with cell-permeable SN50 peptide, which masks the nuclear localization sequence of NF-kappa B1 dimers and prevents their nuclear localization, induces apoptosis in resting normal human PBL.
Inhibition of NF-kappa B resulted in the externalization of phosphatidylserine, induction of DNA breaks, and morphological changes consistent with apoptosis.
Interestingly, apoptosis induced by NF-kappa B suppression, in contrast to that induced by TPEN -LRB- N, N, N', N' - tetrakis -LSB- 2-pyridylmethyl -RSB- ethylenediamine -RRB- or soluble Fas ligand -LRB- CD95 -RRB-, was observed in the absence of active death effector proteases caspase-1-like -LRB- IL-1 converting enzyme -RRB-, caspase-3-like -LRB- CPP32/Yama/apopain -RRB-, and caspase-6-like and without cleavage of caspase-3 substrates poly -LRB- ADP-ribose -RRB- polymerase and DNA fragmentation factor-45.
Preactivation of T cells resulting in NF-kappa B nuclear translocation protected cells from SN50-induced apoptosis.
Our findings demonstrate an essential role of NF-kappa B in survival of naive PBL.
The Epstein-Barr virus oncoprotein latent membrane protein 1 engages the tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated proteins TRADD and receptor-interacting protein -LRB- RIP -RRB- but does not induce apoptosis or require RIP for NF-kappaB activation.
A site in the Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- transforming protein LMP1 that constitutively associates with the tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 -LRB- TNFR1 -RRB- - associated death domain protein TRADD to mediate NF-kappaB and c-Jun N-terminal kinase activation is critical for long-term lymphoblastoid cell proliferation.
We now find that LMP1 signaling through TRADD differs from TNFR1 signaling through TRADD.
LMP1 needs only 11 amino acids to activate NF-kappaB or synergize with TRADD in NF-kappaB activation, while TNFR1 requires approximately 70 residues.
Further, LMP1 does not require TRADD residues 294 to 312 for NF-kappaB activation, while TNFR1 requires TRADD residues 296 to 302.
LMP1 is partially blocked for NF-kappaB activation by a TRADD mutant consisting of residues 122 to 293.
Unlike TNFR1, LMP1 can interact directly with receptor-interacting protein -LRB- RIP -RRB- and stably associates with RIP in EBV-transformed lymphoblastoid cell lines.
Surprisingly, LMP1 does not require RIP for NF-kappaB activation.
Despite constitutive association with TRADD or RIP, LMP1 does not induce apoptosis in EBV-negative Burkitt lymphoma or human embryonic kidney 293 cells.
These results add a different perspective to the molecular interactions through which LMP1, TRADD, and RIP participate in B-lymphocyte activation and growth.
Regulatory effects of interleukin-11 during acute lung inflammatory injury.
The role of interleukin-11 -LRB- IL-11 -RRB- was evaluated in the IgG immune complex model of acute lung injury in rats.
IL-11 mRNA and protein were both up-regulated during the course of this inflammatory response.
Exogenously administered IL-11 substantially reduced, in a dose-dependent manner, the intrapulmonary accumulation of neutrophils and the lung vascular leak of albumin.
These in vivo anti-inflammatory effects of IL-11 were associated with reduced NF-kappaB activation in lung, reduced levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- in bronchoalveolar lavage -LRB- BAL -RRB- fluids, and diminished up-regulation of lung vascular ICAM-1.
It is interesting that IL-11 did not affect BAL fluid content of the CXC chemokines, macrophage inflammatory protein-2 -LRB- MIP-2 -RRB- and cytokine-inducible neutrophil chemoattractant -LRB- CINC -RRB- ; the presence of IL-11 did not affect these chemokines.
However, BAL content of C5a was reduced by IL-11.
Suppression of NF-kappaB activation in normal T cells by supernatant fluid from human renal cell carcinomas.
T lymphocytes from patients with renal cell carcinoma -LRB- RCC -RRB- show reduced immune function and impaired activation of the transcription factor, NF-kappaB.
The pattern of kappaB-binding activity in T cells of RCC patient was altered as compared to that seen in T cells obtained from normal volunteers.
In some patients, no activation of RelA/NFkappaB1-binding activity was detectable, while in others kappaB-binding activity was modestly induced but the duration was reduced.
IkappaBalpha was degraded normally following stimulation in both normal controls and T cells from RCC patients.
RCC-S did not alter the cytoplasmic levels of RelA and NF-kappaB1 but did suppress their nuclear localization and inhibited the activation of RelA/NF-kappaB 1 binding complexes.
These results show that RCC-S can induce in normal T cells the same phenotype of impaired NF-kappaB activation that is detected in T cells of RCC patient.
Monoclonal anti-endothelial cell antibodies from a patient with Takayasu arteritis activate endothelial cells from large vessels.
OBJECTIVE : To create monoclonal anti-endothelial cell antibodies -LRB- mAECA -RRB- from a patient with Takayasu arteritis to evaluate their ability to activate human umbilical vein endothelial cells -LRB- HUVEC -RRB-, and to characterize the mechanism of EC activation.
METHODS : A panel of mAECA was generated from peripheral blood lymphocytes of a patient with Takayasu arteritis, using Epstein-Barr virus transformation.
Activity against macrovascular EC -LRB- HUVEC -RRB- and microvascular EC -LRB- human bone marrow EC immortalized by SV40 -RRB- antigens was detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
Inhibition studies were used to select the monoclonal antibodies -LRB- mAECA -RRB- which share the same EC epitope binding specificity as the total IgG-AECA from the Takayasu arteritis patient.
The binding of the mAECA to human aortic EC was studied by immunohistochemistry.
The secretion levels of interleukin-6 -LRB- IL-6 -RRB- and von Willebrand factor -LRB- vWF -RRB- were determined, to serve as markers for EC activation.
The activated EC were examined for the adherence of a monocytic cell line -LRB- U937 -RRB-, as well as for expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule 1, intercellular adhesion molecule 1, and E-selectin.
In addition, nuclear extracts of the mAECA-treated EC were analyzed for the induction of translocation of nuclear factor kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB-, using a specific NF-kappaB oligoprobe in an electrophoretic mobility shift assay.
RESULTS : Six mAECA were selected, the mixture of which produced 100 % inhibition of binding of the original IgG -LRB- from the patient with Takayasu arteritis -RRB- to HUVEC.
All mAECA possessed high activity against macrovascular EC, but none had significant antimicrovascular EC activity.
The mAECA, but not normal human IgG, had anti-human aortic EC activity.
Four of the 6 mAECA activated EC, manifested by increased IL-6 and vWF secretion.
The 4 mAECA induced EC expression of adhesion molecules and increased adhesion of U937 monocytic cells to EC.
In addition, these mAECA stimulated the nuclear translocation of the NF-kappaB transcription factor.
Different glucocorticoid hormones -LRB- GCH -RRB- show differences in the intensity and in the kinetics of their immunomodulating activity.
The mechanism -LRB- s -RRB- of action of GCH is under investigation, but is has been noted that they exert immune activity via the genomic pathway.
We have studied the effects of prednisone -LRB- PDN -RRB-, deflazacort -LRB- DFC -RRB-, and dexamethasone -LRB- DXM -RRB- on the production of cytokines -LRB- IL-2, IL-6, TNF-alpha, IL-10 -RRB- by peripheral T lymphocytes, and the effects on the inhibition of NF-kB DNA binding activity by activated Jurkat cell line.
The data obtained show that the three GCH molecules exert an immunosuppression on cytokine production by T lymphocytes and a strong decrease in the nuclear translocation of NF-kB in Jurkat cells ; moreover, -LRB- a -RRB- not all the cytokines investigated were affected, and not with the same intensity, by the three GCH and -LRB- b -RRB- DXM inhibited the binding activity of NF-kB less than that of DFC and PDN.
The p53 paradox in the pathogenesis of tumor progression.
In addition, it has been established that tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- can activate the expression of wild type p53 in concert with the nuclear transcription factor, NF-kappa B..
Both TNF-alpha and NF-kappa B are also involved in the stimulation of the pathway that leads to the expression of major histocompatibility complex -LRB- MHC -RRB- class I molecules and, hence, antigen presentation to the T cells.
ETS transcription factors regulate an enhancer activity in the third intron of TNF-alpha.
We describe an enhancer site in the third intron of tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB-.
A reporter construct containing the 5' - flanking region of the mouse TNF-alpha gene displayed weak activity when transfected into RAW264 .7 macrophage-like cells.
The addition of the third intron of TNF-alpha to this construct resulted in an enhancement of CAT protein.
This enhancement was eliminated if a conserved 20-bp sequence was removed from the intron or if a dominant-negative ets-binding factor was co-transfected with the reporter gene.
The major transcription factor that bound to the oligonucleotide was confirmed to be GABP by supershift and competition analysis.
In RAW264 .7 cells, the binding was constitutive, however, in bone marrow-derived macrophages binding activity was shown to be interferon-gamma inducible.
Abnormal NF-kappa B activity in T lymphocytes from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus is associated with decreased p65-RelA protein expression.
Numerous cellular and biochemical abnormalities in immune regulation have been described in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus -LRB- SLE -RRB-, including surface Ag receptor-initiated signaling events and lymphokine production.
Because NF-kappa B contributes to the transcription of numerous inflammatory genes and has been shown to be a molecular target of antiinflammatory drugs, we sought to characterize the functional role of the NF-kappa B protein complex in lupus T cells.
Freshly isolated T cells from lupus patients, rheumatoid arthritis -LRB- RA -RRB- patients, and normal individuals were activated physiologically via the TCR with anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 Abs to assess proximal membrane signaling, and with PMA and a calcium ionophore -LRB- A23187 -RRB- to bypass membrane-mediated signaling events.
We measured the NF-kappa B binding activity in nuclear extracts by gel shift analysis.
When compared with normal cells, the activation of NF-kappa B activity in SLE patients was significantly decreased in SLE, but not in RA, patients.
NF-kappa B binding activity was absent in several SLE patients who were not receiving any medication, including corticosteroids.
Also, NF-kappa B activity remained absent in follow-up studies.
In supershift experiments using specific Abs, we showed that, in the group of SLE patients who displayed undetectable NF-kappa B activity, p65 complexes were not formed.
Finally, immunoblot analysis of nuclear extracts showed decreased or absent p65 protein levels.
Host defense mechanisms triggered by microbial lipoproteins through toll-like receptors.
The generation of cell-mediated immunity against many infectious pathogens involves the production of interleukin-12 -LRB- IL-12 -RRB-, a key signal of the innate immune system.
Yet, for many pathogens, the molecules that induce IL-12 production by macrophages and the mechanisms by which they do so remain undefined.
Here it is shown that microbial lipoproteins are potent stimulators of IL-12 production by human macrophages, and that induction is mediated by Toll-like receptors -LRB- TLRs -RRB-.
Several lipoproteins stimulated TLR-dependent transcription of inducible nitric oxide synthase and the production of nitric oxide, a powerful microbicidal pathway.
Reactive oxygen intermediate-release of fibre-exposed monocytes increases inflammatory cytokine-mRNA level, protein tyrosine kinase and NF-kappaB activity in co-cultured bronchial epithelial cells -LRB- BEAS-2B -RRB-.
Some pulmonary diseases like bronchitis or asthma bronchiale are mediated by inflammatory mechanisms in bronchial epithelial cells.
For measuring the contribution of macrophages to the release of inflammatory mediators by bronchial epithelial cells, we established an in vitro model of co-cultured blood monocytes -LRB- BM -RRB- and BEAS-2B cells in a transwell system -LRB- Costar -RRB-.
BM were exposed to Chrysotile B and soot particle FR 101 in a concentration of 100 microg/10 -LRB- 6 -RRB- cells.
After up to 90 min exposure time ELISA, EMSA -LRB- electromobility shift assay -RRB- and RT-PCR were used to measure protein tyrosine kinase activity, protein activity of NF-kappaB and cytokine -LRB- IL-1beta, IL-6, TNF-alpha -RRB- specific mRNA levels in BEAS-2B cells.
We observed an increase in protein tyrosine kinase activity -LRB- up to 1.8 + / - 0.5-fold -RRB- and NF-kappaB protein activity in BEAS-2B cells after particle or fibre exposure of co-cultured BM.
Consecutive IL-1beta -, IL-6 - and TNF-alpha-mRNA were elevated -LRB- up to 1.9 + / - 0.58-fold -RRB-.
Protein tyrosine kinase activity, NF-kappaB activity, and the synthesis of cytokine-specific mRNA were inhibited by antioxidants.
PPARgamma activation induces the expression of the adipocyte fatty acid binding protein gene in human monocytes.
The peroxisome-proliferator activated receptor gamma -LRB- PPARgamma -RRB-, a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily of ligand activated transcription factors, plays a key role in the anti-diabetic actions of the thiazolidinediones -LRB- TZDs -RRB-.
PPARgamma induces the expression of many genes involved in lipid anabolism, including the adipocyte fatty acid binding protein -LRB- aP2 -RRB-, and is a key regulator of adipocyte differentiation.
PPARgamma is also expressed in hematopoietic cells and is up-regulated in activated monocytes/macrophages.
We report that both natural and synthetic PPARgamma agonists induce time - and dose-dependent increases in aP2 mRNA in both primary human monocytes and the monocytic cell line, THP-1.
Stimulation of neutrophil interleukin-8 production by eosinophil granule major basic protein.
We evaluated the ability of eosinophil granule major basic protein -LRB- MBP -RRB- to stimulate interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -8 production by neutrophils.
MBP over the concentration range of 0.1 to 10 microM stimulated the release of up to approximately 8 ng/ml IL-8.
Incubation with 2 microM MBP showed that, after a 1 h lag, the level of IL-8 release increased with time for approximately 10 h..
At the 2 microM concentration, eosinophil cationic protein, eosinophil-derived neurotoxin, and eosinophil peroxidase did not stimulate significant levels of IL-8 production.
MBP stimulated 2-fold increases in IL-8 messenger RNA -LRB- mRNA -RRB- after 1 and 3 h of incubation, which were blocked by pretreatment with actinomycin D..
However, stimulation with MBP did not produce an increase in the binding activity of nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappaB or activator protein-1.
No NF-IL-6 binding activity was detected in the same nuclear extracts.
In addition, stimulation with MBP prolonged the stability of IL-8 mRNA.
MBP also induced transient increases in mRNA for macrophage inflammatory protein -LRB- MIP -RRB- -1 alpha and MIP-1beta, but did not stimulate the release of either chemokine.
Distinctive gene expression patterns in human mammary epithelial cells and breast cancers.
cDNA microarrays and a clustering algorithm were used to identify patterns of gene expression in human mammary epithelial cells growing in culture and in primary human breast tumors.
Clusters of coexpressed genes identified through manipulations of mammary epithelial cells in vitro also showed consistent patterns of variation in expression among breast tumor samples.
By using immunohistochemistry with antibodies against proteins encoded by a particular gene in a cluster, the identity of the cell type within the tumor specimen that contributed the observed gene expression pattern could be determined.
Clusters of genes with coherent expression patterns in cultured cells and in the breast tumors samples could be related to specific features of biological variation among the samples.
Two such clusters were found to have patterns that correlated with variation in cell proliferation rates and with activation of the IFN-regulated signal transduction pathway, respectively.
Clusters of genes expressed by stromal cells and lymphocytes in the breast tumors also were identified in this analysis.
These results support the feasibility and usefulness of this systematic approach to studying variation in gene expression patterns in human cancers as a means to dissect and classify solid tumors.
NF-kappaB-mediated up-regulation of Bcl-x and Bfl-1 / A1 is required for CD40 survival signaling in B lymphocytes.
Activation of CD40 is essential for thymus-dependent humoral immune responses and rescuing B cells from apoptosis.
In addition to Bcl-x, a known CD40-regulated antiapoptotic molecule, we identified a related antiapoptotic molecule, A1/Bfl -1, as a CD40-inducible gene.
Inhibition of the NF-kappaB pathway by overexpression of a dominant-active inhibitor of NF-kappaB abolished CD40-induced up-regulation of both the Bfl-1 and Bcl-x genes and also eliminated the ability of CD40 to rescue Fas-induced cell death.
Within the upstream promoter region of Bcl-x, a potential NF-kappaB-binding sequence was found to support NF-kappaB-dependent transcriptional activation.
Furthermore, expression of physiological levels of Bcl-x protected B cells from Fas-mediated apoptosis in the absence of NF-kappaB signaling.
Tissue-specific regulation of the ecto-5' - nucleotidase promoter.
Role of the camp response element site in mediating repression by the upstream regulatory region.
We have isolated the 5' region of the ecto-5' - nucleotidase -LRB- low K -LRB- m -RRB- 5' - NT -RRB- gene and established that a 969-base pair -LRB- bp -RRB- fragment confers cell-specific expression of a CAT reporter gene that correlates with the expression of endogenous ecto-5' - NT mRNA and enzymatic activity.
A 768-bp upstream negative regulatory region has been identified that conferred lymphocyte-specific negative regulation in a heterologous system with a 244-bp deoxycytidine kinase core promoter.
DNase I footprinting identified several protected areas including Sp1, Sp1/AP -2, and cAMP response element -LRB- CRE -RRB- binding sites within the 201-bp core promoter region and Sp1, NRE-2a, TCF-1 / LEF-1, and Sp1/NF-AT binding sites in the upstream regulatory region.
Whereas the CRE site was essential in mediating the negative activity of the upstream regulatory region in Jurkat but not in HeLa cells, mutation of the Sp1/AP -2 site decreased promoter activity in both cell lines.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assay analysis of proteins binding to the CRE site identified both ATF-1 and ATF-2 in Jurkat cells.
Finally, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate increased the activity of both the core and the 969-bp promoter fragments, and this increase was abrogated by mutations at the CRE site.
In summary, we have identified a tissue-specific regulatory region 5' of the ecto-5' - NT core promoter that requires the presence of a functional CRE site within the basal promoter for its suppressive activity.
Cell activation and apoptosis by bacterial lipoproteins through toll-like receptor-2.
Apoptosis is implicated in the generation and resolution of inflammation in response to bacterial pathogens.
All bacterial pathogens produce lipoproteins -LRB- BLPs -RRB-, which trigger the innate immune response.
BLPs were found to induce apoptosis in THP-1 monocytic cells through human Toll-like receptor-2 -LRB- hTLR2 -RRB-.
BLPs also initiated apoptosis in an epithelial cell line transfected with hTLR2.
In addition, BLPs stimulated nuclear factor-kappaB, a transcriptional activator of multiple host defense genes, and activated the respiratory burst through hTLR2.
Thus, hTLR2 is a molecular link between microbial products, apoptosis, and host defense mechanisms.
C/EBPbeta and GATA-1 synergistically regulate activity of the eosinophil granule major basic protein promoter : implication for C/EBPbeta activity in eosinophil gene expression.
Eosinophil granule major basic protein -LRB- MBP -RRB- is expressed exclusively in eosinophils and basophils in hematopoietic cells.
In our previous study, we demonstrated a major positive regulatory role for GATA-1 and a negative regulatory role for GATA-2 in MBP gene transcription.
Further analysis of the MBP promoter region identified a C/EBP -LRB- CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein -RRB- consensus binding site 6 bp upstream of the functional GATA-binding site in the MBP gene.
In the cell line HT93A, which is capable of differentiating towards both the eosinophil and neutrophil lineages in response to retinoic acid -LRB- RA -RRB-, C/EBPalpha mRNA expression decreased significantly concomitant with eosinophilic and neutrophilic differentiation, whereas C/EBPbeta expression was markedly increased.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays -LRB- EMSAs -RRB- showed that recombinant C/EBPbeta protein could bind to the potential C/EBP-binding site -LRB- bp -90 to -82 -RRB- in the MBP promoter.
Furthermore, we have demonstrated that both C/EBPbeta and GATA-1 can bind simultaneously to the C/EBP - and GATA-binding sites in the MBP promoter.
Cotransfection with C/EBPbeta and GATA-1 expression vectors produced a 5-fold increase compared with cotransfection with the C/EBPbeta or GATA-1 expression vectors individually.
In addition, GST pull-down experiments demonstrated a physical interaction between human GATA-1 and C/EBPbeta.
Expression of FOG -LRB- riend ATA -RRB-, which binds to GATA-1 and acts as a cofactor for GATA-binding proteins, decreased transactivation activity of GATA-1 for the MBP promoter in a dose-dependent manner.
Protein kinase C and calcineurin synergize to activate IkappaB kinase and NF-kappaB in T lymphocytes.
The nuclear factor of kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- is a ubiquitous transcription factor that is key in the regulation of the immune response and inflammation.
T cell receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- cross-linking is in part required for activation of NF-kappaB, which is dependent on the phosphorylation and degradation of IkappaBalpha.
By using Jurkat and primary human T lymphocytes, we demonstrate that the simultaneous activation of two second messengers of the TCR-initiated signal transduction, protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- and calcineurin, results in the synergistic activation of the IkappaBalpha kinase -LRB- IKK -RRB- complex but not of another putative IkappaBalpha kinase, p90 -LRB- rsk -RRB-.
We also demonstrate that the IKK complex, but not p90 -LRB- rsk -RRB-, is responsible for the in vivo phosphorylation of IkappaBalpha mediated by the co-activation of PKC and calcineurin.
Each second messenger is necessary, as inhibition of either one reverses the activation of the IKK complex and IkappaBalpha phosphorylation in vivo.
Overexpression of dominant negative forms of IKKalpha and - beta demonstrates that only IKKbeta is the target for PKC and calcineurin.
Retinoblastoma protein expression leads to reduced Oct-1 DNA binding activity and enhances interleukin-8 expression.
Tumor cell lines with a defective retinoblastoma gene are unable to transcribe the HLA class II genes in response to IFN-gamma treatment, and reconstitution of functional Rb rescues IFN-gamma-induced class II gene expression.
We have examined the effect of Rb expression on the activation of the promoter for HLA-DRA, the prototype class II gene.
Oct-1, a POU domain transcription factor, was identified as a repressor of HLA-DRA promoter activity in the Rb-defective cells.
Rb expression led to phosphorylation of Oct-1, thus relieving its repressive effect.
Oct-1 has also been shown to repress interleukin 8 promoter activity.
Consistent with reduced levels of Oct-1 DNA binding activity in the Rb-transformed cell lines, interleukin 8 expression is higher in these cell lines.
Bcl-2-mediated drug resistance : inhibition of apoptosis by blocking nuclear factor of activated T lymphocytes -LRB- NFAT -RRB- - induced Fas ligand transcription.
Bcl-2 inhibits apoptosis induced by a variety of stimuli, including chemotherapy drugs and glucocorticoids.
It is generally accepted that Bcl-2 exerts its antiapoptotic effects mainly by dimerizing with proapoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family such as Bax and Bad.
Paclitaxel and other drugs that disturb microtubule dynamics kill cells in a Fas/Fas ligand -LRB- FasL -RRB- - dependent manner ; antibody to FasL inhibits paclitaxel-induced apoptosis.
We have found that Bcl-2 overexpression leads to the prevention of chemotherapy -LRB- paclitaxel -RRB- - induced expression of FasL and blocks paclitaxel-induced apoptosis.
The mechanism of this effect is that Bcl-2 prevents the nuclear translocation of NFAT -LRB- nuclear factor of activated T lymphocytes, a transcription factor activated by microtubule damage -RRB- by binding and sequestering calcineurin, a calcium-dependent phosphatase that must dephosphorylate NFAT to move to the nucleus.
Without NFAT nuclear translocation, the FasL gene is not transcribed.
Furthermore, Bcl-2 antagonizes drug-induced apoptosis by inhibiting calcineurin activation, blocking NFAT nuclear translocation, and preventing FasL expression.
The effects of Bcl-2 can be overcome, at least partially, through phosphorylation of Bcl-2.
Induction of a functional vitamin D receptor in all-trans-retinoic acid-induced monocytic differentiation of M2-type leukemic blast cells.
Different types of acute myeloid leukemia blast cells were induced to differentiate in vitro with all-trans-retinoic acid -LRB- ATRA -RRB- and vitamin D3 -LRB- VD -RRB-.
M0/M1 leukemic cells are not sensitive to differentiating agents, whereas M3 leukemic cells are induced to undergo granulocytic differentiation after ATRA treatment but are not sensitive to VD.
M2 leukemic blast cells behave differently because they undergo monocytic differentiation with both the differentiation inducers.
To gain some insight into the maturation of M2-type leukemic cells, we studied the molecular mechanisms underlying monocytic differentiation induced by ATRA and VD in spontaneous M2 blast cells as well as in Kasumi-1 cells -LRB- an acute myeloid leukemia M2-type cell line -RRB-.
VDR is functionally active in ATRA-treated Kasumi-1 cells because it efficiently heterodimerizes with retinoid X receptor, binds to a DR3-type vitamin D-responsive element, and activates the transcription of a vitamin D-responsive element-regulated reporter gene.
Suppression of TNFalpha-mediated NFkappaB activity by myricetin and other flavonoids through downregulating the activity of IKK in ECV304 cells.
Flavonoids are a group of naturally-occurring phenolic compounds in the plant kingdom, and many flavonoids are found with vascular protective properties.
Nevertheless how the protective response is exerted by flavonoids is not well characterized.
In this study, the effects of flavonoids on NFkappaB/inhibitor-kappaB -LRB- IkappaB -RRB- system in ECV304 cells activated with tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNFalpha -RRB- were examined.
We investigated the inhibitory action of six flavonoids on IkappaB kinase -LRB- IKK -RRB- activity, an enzyme recently found to phosphorylate critical serine residues of IkappaB for degradation.
Of six flavonoids tested, myricetin was found to strongly inhibit IKK kinase activity, and prevent the degradation of IkappaBalpha and IkappaBbeta in activated endothelial cells.
Furthermore, myricetin was also found to inhibit NFkappaB activity correlated with suppression of monocyte adhesion to ECV304 cells.
Copyright 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc..
IL-2-independent activation and proliferation in human T cells induced by CD28.
Although the role of CD28 in T cell costimulation is firmly established, the mechanisms by which it exerts its costimulatory actions are less clear.
In many circumstances it is difficult to distinguish the effects of CD28 from subsequent actions of cytokines, such as IL-2, on T cell proliferation.
Here, we report a model of CD28 costimulation using PMA plus the natural ligand CD80 that resulted in very limited stimulation of IL-2, as evidenced by both cytokine production and IL-2 promoter stimulation.
Promoter assays revealed CD28-dependent effects on both NF-kappaB and AP-1, but not on NF-AT or the intact IL-2 promoter.
In addition, T cell proliferation was completely resistant to the actions of the immunosuppressant cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB-.
Moreover T cell proliferation was unaffected by the addition of blocking Abs to both IL-2 and the IL-2 receptor, demonstrating that this form of costimulation by CD28 was independent of IL-2.
We also investigated the effects of stimulating T cell blasts with CD80 alone and found that there was a limited requirement for IL-2 in this system.
We conclude that CD28 costimulation can cause substantial T cell proliferation in the absence of IL-2, which is driven by a soluble factor independent of NF-AT transactivation.
Thymocyte-thymic epithelial cell interaction leads to high-level replication of human immunodeficiency virus exclusively in mature CD4 -LRB- + -RRB- CD8 -LRB- - -RRB- CD3 -LRB- + -RRB- thymocytes : a critical role for tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-7.
This work aims at identifying the thymocyte subpopulation able to support human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- replication under the biological stimuli of the thymic microenvironment.
In this report we demonstrate that interaction with thymic epithelial cells -LRB- TEC -RRB- induces a high-level replication of the T-tropic primary isolate HIV-1 -LRB- B-LAIp -RRB- exclusively in the mature CD4 -LRB- + -RRB- CD8 -LRB- - -RRB- CD3 -LRB- + -RRB- thymocytes.
Tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- and interleukin-7 -LRB- IL-7 -RRB-, secreted during this interaction, are critical cytokines for HIV long terminal repeat transactivation through NF-kappaB-dependent activation.
TNF is the major inducer of NF-kappaB and particularly of the p50-p65 complex, whereas IL-7 acts as a cofactor by sustaining the expression of the p75 TNF receptor.
The requirement for TNF is further confirmed by the observation that the inability of the intermediate CD4 -LRB- + -RRB- CD8 -LRB- - -RRB- CD3 -LRB- - -RRB- thymocytes to replicate the virus is associated with a defect in TNF production during their interaction with TEC and correlates with the absence of nuclear NF-kappaB activity in these freshly isolated thymocytes.
Addition of exogenous TNF to the intermediate thymocyte cultures induces NF-kappaB activity and is sufficient to promote HIV replication in the cocultures with TEC.
An essential role for NF-kappaB in human CD34 -LRB- + -RRB- bone marrow cell survival.
The transcription factor, NF-kappaB, is important for T-cell activation, B-cell maturation, and human immunodeficiency virus transcription and plays a role in alternatively mediating and protecting against apoptosis in a variety of cell types.
However, a role for NF-kappaB in human CD34 -LRB- + -RRB- bone marrow cells has not been described.
We provide evidence here that virtually all human CD34 -LRB- + -RRB- bone marrow cells express NF-kappaB that can be activated by exposure to phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and a variety of cytokines, eg, tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin-3, and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor.
Unicellular-unilineage erythropoietic cultures : molecular analysis of regulatory gene expression at sibling cell level.
In vitro studies on hematopoietic control mechanisms have been hampered by the heterogeneity of the analyzed cell populations, ie, lack of lineage specificity and developmental stage homogeneity of progenitor/precursor cells growing in culture.
We developed unicellular culture systems for unilineage differentiation of purified hematopoietic progenitor cells followed by daughter cell analysis at cellular and molecular level.
In the culture system reported here, -LRB- 1 -RRB- the growth factor -LRB- GF -RRB- stimulus induces cord blood -LRB- CB -RRB- progenitor cells to proliferate and differentiate/mature exclusively along the erythroid lineage ; -LRB- 2 -RRB- this erythropoietic wave is characterized by less than 4 % apoptotic cells ; -LRB- 3 -RRB- asymmetric divisions are virtually absent, ie, nonresponsive hematopoietic progenitors with no erythropoietic potential are forced into apoptosis ; -LRB- 4 -RRB- the system is cell division controlled -LRB- cdc -RRB-, ie, the number of divisions performed by each cell is monitored.
Single-cell reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction -LRB- RT-PCR -RRB- analysis was applied to this culture system to investigate gene expression of diverse receptors, markers of differentiation, and transcription factors -LRB- EKLF, GATA-1, GATA-2, p45 NF-E2, PU .1, and SCL/Tal1 -RRB- at discrete stages of erythropoietic development.
Freshly isolated CD34 -LRB- + -RRB- cells expressed CD34, c-kit, PU .1, and GATA-2 but did not express CD36, erythropoietin receptor -LRB- EpoR -RRB-, SCL/Tal1, EKLF, NF-E2, GATA-1, or glyocophorin A -LRB- GPA -RRB-.
In early to intermediate stages of erythroid differentiation we monitored the induction of CD36, Tal1, EKLF, NF-E2, and GATA-1 that preceeded expression of EpoR.
In late stages of erythroid maturation, GPA was upregulated, whereas CD34, c-kit, PU .1, and GATA-2 were barely or not detected.
In addition, competitive single-cell RT-PCR was used to assay CD34 mRNA transcripts in sibling CD34 -LRB- + -RRB- CD38 -LRB- - -RRB- cells differentiating in unilineage erythroid cultures : this analysis allowed us to semiquantitate the gradual downmodulation of CD34 mRNA from progenitor cells through their differentiating erythroid progeny.
Control of cell cycle entry and apoptosis in B lymphocytes infected by Epstein-Barr virus.
Infection of human B cells with Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- results in activation of the cell cycle and cell growth.
To interpret the mechanisms by which EBV activates the cell, we have assayed many proteins involved in control of the G0 and G1 phases of the cell cycle and regulation of apoptosis.
By comparing the expression of genes controlling apoptosis, including those encoding several members of the BCL-2 family of proteins, the known relative resistance of EBV-immortalized B-cell lines to apoptosis induced by low serum was found to correlate with expression of both BCL-2 and A20.
A20 can be regulated by the NF-kappaB transcription factor, which is known to be activated by the EBV LMP-1 protein.
Quantitative assays demonstrated a direct temporal relationship between LMP-1 protein levels and active NF-kappaB during the time course of infection.
Immortalization of CD4 -LRB- + -RRB- and CD8 -LRB- + -RRB- T lymphocytes by human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 Tax mutants expressed in a functional molecular clone.
The human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 -LRB- HTLV-1 -RRB- transcriptional trans-activator Tax has been demonstrated to have transforming activity in multiple cell culture and transgenic-mouse models.
In addition to activating transcription from the viral long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- through the cyclic AMP response element binding protein/activating transcription factor -LRB- CREB/ATF -RRB- family of transcription factors, Tax activates the expression of multiple cellular promoters through the NF-kappaB pathway of transcriptional activation.
The Tax mutants M22 and M47 have previously been demonstrated to selectively abrogate the ability of Tax to activate transcription through the NF-kappaB or CREB/ATF pathway, respectively.
These mutations were introduced in the tax gene of the ACH functional molecular clone of HTLV-1, and virus produced from the mutant ACH clones was examined for the ability to replicate and immortalize primary human lymphocytes.
While virus derived from the clone containing the M47 mutation retained the ability to immortalize T lymphocytes, the M22 mutant lost the ability to immortalize infected cells.
HIV-1 reactivation in resting peripheral blood mononuclear cells of infected adults upon in vitro CD4 cross-linking by ligands of the CDR2-loop in extracellular domain 1.
HIV-1 infects resting peripheral blood mononuclear cells -LRB- PBMCs -RRB- but remains inactive state until subsequent cell activation.
We have demonstrated that the cross-linking of cell surface CD4 by gp120-anti-gp120 immune complexes or heat-inactivated HIV-1 -LRB- iHIV-1 -RRB- is sufficient to trigger activation signals leading to virus reactivation -LRB- 9 -RRB-.
In this study, we demonstrate that NF-kappaB nuclear translocation and stimulation of virus production by iHIV-1 were strictly linked to the concentrations of viral proteins used as exogenous stimuli.
Moreover, we further investigated the physiologic relevance of these observations.
When submitted to an in vitro CD4 cross-linking by iHIV-1, PBMCs from HIV-1-infected patients were found to produce virus.
This viral reactivation was associated with increased NF-kappaB nuclear translocation in patients' PBMCs.
Additionally, virus reactivation in resting PBMCs infected in vitro with HIV-1 was found to be specifically induced by ligands of the CDR2-loop in domain 1 -LRB- D1 -RRB- of CD4 -LRB- virus envelope and anti-CD4 monoclonal antibodies -RRB-.
In contrast, virus reactivation was not observed following CD4 oligomerization by antibodies that bind other epitopes in D1, including the D1/CDR3-loop.
Finally, soluble CD4 -LRB- sCD4 -RRB- prevented virus reactivation by D1/CDR2-loop ligands.
Defining therapeutic targets by using adenovirus : blocking NF-kappaB inhibits both inflammatory and destructive mechanisms in rheumatoid synovium but spares anti-inflammatory mediators.
The role of the transcription factor NF-kappaB in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis has long been a subject of controversy.
We used an adenoviral technique of blocking NF-kappaB through overexpression of the inhibitory subunit IkappaBalpha, which has the advantage that it can be used in the diseased tissue itself, with > 90 % of the synovial macrophages, fibroblasts, and T cells infected.
We found that the spontaneous production of tumor necrosis factor alpha and other pro-inflammatory cytokines is NF-kappaB-dependent in rheumatoid synovial tissue, in contrast to the main anti-inflammatory mediators, like IL-10 and -11, and the IL-1 receptor antagonist.
Of even more interest, IkappaBalpha overexpression inhibited the production of matrix metalloproteinases 1 and 3 while not affecting their tissue inhibitor.
Blocking NF-kappaB in the rheumatoid joint thus has a very beneficial profile, reducing both the inflammatory response and the tissue destruction.
The adenoviral technique described here has widespread applicability, allowing rapid testing of the effects of blocking a potential therapeutic target in either cultures of normal cells or in the diseased tissue itself.
Cell growth-regulated expression of mammalian MCM5 and MCM6 genes mediated by the transcription factor E2F.
Initiation of DNA replication requires the function of MCM gene products, which participate in ensuring that DNA replication occurs only once in the cell cycle.
Expression of all mammalian genes of the MCM family is induced by growth stimulation, unlike yeast, and the mRNA levels peak at G1/S boundary.
In this study, we examined the transcriptional activities of isolated human MCM gene promoters.
Human MCM5 and MCM6 promoters with mutation in the E2F sites failed in promoter regulation following serum stimulation and exogenous E2F expression.
In addition, we identified a novel E2F-like sequence in human MCM6 promoter which cooperates with the authentic E2F sites in E2F-dependent regulation.
Forced expression of E2F1 could induce expression of all members of the endogenous MCM genes in rat embryonal fibroblast REF52 cells.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs inhibit the expression of cytokines and induce HSP70 in human monocytes.
Recent studies have shown that the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs -LRB- NSAIDs -RRB- activate heat shock transcription factor -LRB- HSF1 -RRB- from a latent cytoplasmic form to a nuclear, DNA binding state.
We found that two members of the NSAIDs, sodium salicylate and sulindac repress the IL1B promoter to similar degree to heat shock or HSF1 overexpression.
In addition, sodium salicylate and additional NSAIDs used at concentrations that activate HSF1 also inhibited the expression of other monocytic genes -LRB- TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, ICAM-1 -RRB- activated by exposure to a pro-inflammatory stimulus -LRB- lipopolysaccharide, LPS -RRB-.
Exposure to NSAIDs had a complex effect on HSP gene expression and while sulindac activated the stress responsive HSP70B promoter, sodium salicylate did not.
In addition, only a subset of the NSAIDs induced HSP70 mRNA species.
Copyright 1999 Academic Press.
Disruption of alpha beta but not of gamma delta T cell development by overexpression of the helix-loop-helix protein Id3 in committed T cell progenitors.
Enforced expression of Id3, which has the capacity to inhibit many basic helix-loop-helix -LRB- bHLH -RRB- transcription factors, in human CD34 -LRB- + -RRB- hematopoietic progenitor cells that have not undergone T cell receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- gene rearrangements inhibits development of the transduced cells into TCRalpha beta and gamma delta cells in a fetal thymic organ culture -LRB- FTOC -RRB-.
Here we document that overexpression of Id3, in progenitors that have initiated TCR gene rearrangements -LRB- pre-T cells -RRB-, inhibits development into TCRalpha beta but not into TCRgamma delta T cells.
Furthermore, Id3 impedes expression of recombination activating genes and downregulates pre-Talpha mRNA.
We also observed that cell surface CD4 -LRB- - -RRB- CD8 -LRB- - -RRB- CD3 -LRB- - -RRB- cells with rearranged TCR genes developed from Id3-transduced but not from control-transduced pre-T cells in an FTOC.
These cells had properties of both natural killer -LRB- NK -RRB- and pre-T cells.
Rel/NF-kappaB can trigger the Notch signaling pathway by inducing the expression of Jagged1, a ligand for Notch receptors.
Jagged1 belongs to the DSL family of ligands for Notch receptors that control the proliferation and differentiation of various cell lineages.
However, little is known about the transcription factors that regulate its expression.
Here, we show that Jagged1 is a Rel/NF-kappaB-responsive gene.
Both c-Rel and RelA induced jagged1 gene expression, whereas a mutant defective for transactivation did not.
Importantly, jagged1 transcripts were also upregulated by endogenous NF-kappaB activation and this effect was inhibited by a dominant mutant of IkappaBalpha, a physiological inhibitor of NF-kappaB.
Cell surface expression of Jagged1 in c-Rel-expressing cell monolayers led to a functional interaction with lymphocytes expressing the Notch1/TAN -1 receptor.
This correlated with the initiation of signaling downstream of Notch, as evidenced by increased levels of HES-1 transcripts in co-cultivated T cells and of CD23 transcripts in co-cultivated B cells.
Consistent with its Rel/NF-kappaB-dependent induction, Jagged1 was found to be highly expressed in splenic B cells where c-Rel is expressed constitutively.
Transcriptional control of the IL-5 gene by human helper T cells : IL-5 synthesis is regulated independently from IL-2 or IL-4 synthesis.
BACKGROUND : IL-5 is fundamentally involved in eosinophilic inflammation.
OBJECTIVE : We aimed to find the transcriptional mechanisms that regulate the IL-5 gene to selectively control IL-5 synthesis.
METHODS : Allergen-specific T-cell clones and T-cell hybridomas were established from the peripheral blood lymphocytes of patients with asthma, and the transcriptional regulation of the IL-5 gene was investigated with transient transfection and electrophoretic mobility shift analysis.
RESULTS : A human IL-5 promoter/enhancer-luciferase gene construct, pIL-5 -LRB- -511 -RRB- Luc, was transcribed on activation of IL-5-producing T-cell clones, but not IL-5-nonproducing clones.
pIL-5 -LRB- -511 -RRB- Luc was transcribed by T-cell hybridomas derived from fusion between IL-5-producing T-cell clones and an IL-5 gene-nonexpressing T-cell line, but not by hybridomas derived from IL-5-nonproducing T-cell clones.
IL-5 synthesis was not only induced by T-cell receptor stimulation but also by IL-2 receptor stimulation.
Binding of NF-AT, NF-kappaB, and AP-1 was induced by T-cell receptor -LRB- TcR -RRB- stimulation, although there was no significant upregulation of binding by IL-2 stimulation.
CONCLUSION : IL-5 synthesis by human helper T cells is regulated at the transcriptional level.
Regulation of low shear flow-induced HAEC VCAM-1 expression and monocyte adhesion.
We recently reported that prolonged exposure of human aortic endothelial cells -LRB- HAEC -RRB- to low shear stress flow patterns is associated with a sustained increase in the activated form of the transcriptional regulator nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB-.
Before exposure to low shear -LRB- 2 dyn/cm2 -RRB- for 6 h, HAEC were preincubated with or without the antioxidants pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate -LRB- PDTC -RRB- or N-acetyl-L-cysteine -LRB- NAC -RRB-.
PDTC strongly inhibited low shear-induced activation of NF-kappaB, expression of VCAM-1, and EC-Mn adhesion.
Paradoxically, NAC exerted a positive effect on low shear-induced VCAM-1 expression and EC-Mn adhesion and only slightly downregulated NF-kappaB activation.
However, cytokine-induced NF-kappaB activation and VCAM-1 expression are blocked by both PDTC and NAC.
Nuclear localization and formation of beta-catenin-lymphoid enhancer factor 1 complexes are not sufficient for activation of gene expression.
In response to activation of the Wnt signaling pathway, beta-catenin accumulates in the nucleus, where it cooperates with LEF/TCF -LRB- for lymphoid enhancer factor and T-cell factor -RRB- transcription factors to activate gene expression.
We have introduced a small deletion within beta-catenin -LRB- Delta19 -RRB- that disrupts binding to LEF-1, E-cadherin, and APC but not axin.
The nuclear localization of Delta19 definitively demonstrates that the mechanisms by which beta-catenin localizes in the nucleus are completely independent of LEF/TCF factors.
beta-Catenin and LEF-1 complexes can activate reporter gene expression in a transformed T-lymphocyte cell line -LRB- Jurkat -RRB- but not in normal T lymphocytes, even though both factors are nuclear.
Thus, localization of both factors to the nucleus is not sufficient for activation of gene expression.
Excess beta-catenin can squelch reporter gene activation by LEF-1-beta-catenin complexes but not activation by the transcription factor VP16.
Paradoxical priming effects of IL-10 on cytokine production.
IL-10 is a well-known immunosuppressive and/or anti-inflammatory cytokine.
However, we report in vitro experimental studies in which IL-10 primed leukocytes and led to an enhanced production of tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- upon further stimulation by lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-.
Monocytes and peripheral blood mononuclear cells -LRB- PBMC -RRB- prepared from whole blood maintained for 20 h at 37 degrees C in the presence of recombinant human IL-10 had an enhanced capacity to produce TNF in response to LPS.
In addition to TNF, LPS-induced IL-6 and spontaneous IL-1ra production were also enhanced.
When isolated PBMC were first cultured for 20 h in the presence of IL-10 on Teflon to prevent adherence, washed to remove IL-10 and then further cultured in plastic dishes for an additional 20 h in the presence of LPS or IL-1beta, an enhanced release of TNF was observed.
This was not the case when PBMC were pre-cultured in plastic multidishes in the presence of IL-10.
TNF mRNA expression induced by LPS was decreased when the pre-treatment of PBMC with IL-10 was performed on plastic, whereas this was not the case when cells were pre-cultured with IL-10 on Teflon.
Furthermore, NFkappaB translocation following LPS activation was higher after IL-10 pre-treatment on Teflon than on plastic.
Interestingly, an enhanced frequency of CD16 and CD68 -LRB- + -RRB- cells among the CD14 -LRB- + -RRB- cells was observed in the presence of IL-10, independently of the pre-culture conditions of the PBMC.
In contrast, the adherence parameter has no effect on the IL-10-induced modulation of some monocyte surface markers.
Different sequence requirements for expression in erythroid and megakaryocytic cells within a regulatory element upstream of the GATA-1 gene.
The lineage-restricted transcription factor GATA-1 is required for differentiation of erythroid and megakaryocytic cells.
We have localized a 317 base pair cis-acting regulatory element, HS I, associated with a hematopoietic-specific DNase I hypersensitive site, which lies approx. 3.7 kilobases upstream of the murine hematopoietic-specific GATA-1 IE promoter.
HS I directs high-level expression of reporter GATA-1 / lacZ genes to primitive and definitive erythroid cells and megakaryocytes in transgenic mice.
Comparative sequence analysis of HS I between human and mouse shows approx. 63 % nucleotide identity with a more conserved core of 169 base pairs -LRB- 86 % identity -RRB-.
This core contains a GATA site separated by 10 base pairs from an E-box motif.
The composite motif binds a multi-protein hematopoietic-specific transcription factor complex which includes GATA-1, SCL/tal -1, E2A, Lmo2 and Ldb-1.
Point mutations of the GATA site abolishes HS I function, whereas mutation of the E-box motif still allows reporter gene expression in both lineages.
Further dissection of the 317 base pair region demonstrates that, whereas all 317 base pairs are required for expression in megakaryocytes, only the 5' 62 base pairs are needed for erythroid-specific reporter expression.
These findings demonstrate differential lineage requirements for expression within the HS I element.
Monocyte arrest and transmigration on inflamed endothelium in shear flow is inhibited by adenovirus-mediated gene transfer of IkappaB-alpha.
Mobilization of nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- activates transcription of genes encoding endothelial adhesion molecules and chemokines that contribute to monocyte infiltration critical in atherogenesis.
Inhibition of NF-kappaB has been achieved by pharmacological and genetic approaches ; however, monocyte interactions with activated endothelium in shear flow following gene transfer of the NF-kappaB inhibitor IkappaB-alpha have not been studied.
We found that overexpression of IkappaB-alpha in endothelial cells using a recombinant adenovirus prevented tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- - induced degradation of IkappaB-alpha and suppressed the upregulation of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- VCAM-1 -RRB-, intercellular adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- ICAM-1 -RRB-, and E-selectin mRNA and surface protein expression and the upregulation of transcripts for the chemokines monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 -LRB- MCP-1 -RRB- and growth-related activity-alpha -LRB- GRO-alpha -RRB- by TNF-alpha.
This was associated with a reduction in endothelial MCP-1 secretion and GRO-alpha immobilization.
Adhesion assays under physiological shear flow conditions showed that firm arrest, spreading, and transmigration of monocytes on TNF-alpha-activated endothelium was markedly inhibited by IkappaB-alpha overexpression.
Inhibition with monoclonal antibodies and peptide antagonists inferred that this was due to reduced expression of Ig integrin ligand as well as of chemokines specifically involved in these events.
Thus, our data provide novel evidence that selective modulation of NF-kappaB by adenoviral transfer of IkappaB-alpha impairs the expression of multiple endothelial gene products required for subsequent monocyte arrest and emigration in shear flow and thus for monocyte infiltration in atherosclerotic plaques.
Targeted remodeling of human beta-globin promoter chromatin structure produces increased expression and decreased silencing.
The chromatin structure of the human beta-globin gene locus assumes a transcriptionally-active conformation in erythroid cells.
One feature of this chromatin reorganization is the formation of DNase 1 hypersensitive sites in the regions of active globin gene promoters.
This reorganization requires the globin locus control region and is associated with normal expression of the beta-like globin genes.
This element includes binding sites for NF-E2, AP-1, GATA-1 and Sp-1.
Constructs were stably transfected into murine erythroleukemia cells and promoter chromatin structure and gene expression were analyzed.
The HSFE induced an area of enhanced DNase 1 hypersensitivity extending from the transcriptional start site to -300 bp of the artificial promoter and significantly increased the proportion of beta-globin promoters in an open chromatin configuration.
This remodeling of promoter chromatin structure resulted in 3-fold increases in beta-globin gene transcription and induction, and inhibited long-term beta-globin gene silencing.
SLP-76 and Vav function in separate, but overlapping pathways to augment interleukin-2 promoter activity.
SLP-76 and Vav, two hematopoietic cell specific molecules, are critical for T cell development and activation.
Following T cell antigen receptor stimulation, SLP-76 and Vav both undergo tyrosine phosphorylation and associate with each other via the SH2 domain of Vav and phosphorylated tyrosines of SLP-76.
Furthermore, SLP-76 and Vav have a synergistic effect on interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -2 promoter activity in T cells.
In this report, we show that two tyrosines, Tyr-113 and Tyr-128, of SLP-76 are required for its binding to Vav, both in vitro and in intact cells.
Overexpression of SLP-76 in the Jurkat T cell line potentiates the activities of both nuclear factor of activated T cells and AP-1 transcription factors.
In contrast, overexpression of Vav leads to enhanced nuclear factor of activated T cells activity without affecting AP-1.
Additionally, overexpression of Vav, but not SLP-76, augments CD28-induced IL-2 promoter activity.
CD28 costimulation augments IL-2 secretion of activated lamina propria T cells by increasing mRNA stability without enhancing IL-2 gene transactivation.
The pathways leading to activation in lamina propria -LRB- LP -RRB- T cells are different from peripheral T cells.
LP T cells exhibit enhanced IL-2 secretion when activated through the CD2 pathway.
Coligation of CD28 leads to synergistic enhancement of IL-2 secretion.
Previous studies have characterized the CD28 augmentation of TCR-mediated signaling in peripheral blood T cells through transcriptional activation of an IL-2 promoter CD28 response element -LRB- CD28RE -RRB-, along with enhanced mRNA stability.
This study characterized molecular events involved in CD28 costimulation of IL-2 production in LP mononuclear cells -LRB- LPMC -RRB-.
LPMC exhibited increased IL-2 production in response to CD28 costimulation, compared with cells activated through CD2 alone.
IL-2 secretion was paralleled by increased expression of IL-2 mRNA, resulting from enhanced IL-2 mRNA stability.
In contrast to transcriptional activation in PBMC, EMSA revealed that CD28 coligation of CD2-activated LPMC does not result in increased binding of trans-factors to the CD28RE, nor did Western blots detect changes in I-kappaBalpha or I-kappaBbeta levels following CD28 coligation.
Furthermore, CD28 coligation fails to enhance IL-2 promoter-reporter or RE/AP construct expression in CD2-activated LPMC.
In vivo inhibition of NF-kappa B in T-lineage cells leads to a dramatic decrease in cell proliferation and cytokine production and to increased cell apoptosis in response to mitogenic stimuli, but not to abnormal thymopoiesis.
To understand the role of NF-kappa B complexes in T cell development and activation, we have generated transgenic mice in which RelA and c-Rel complexes were selectively inhibited in the T-lineage cells by specific expression of a trans-dominant form of I kappa B alpha.
Transgene expression did not affect the thymic development, but led to lowered numbers of splenic T cells and to a dramatic decrease in the ex vivo proliferative response of splenic T lymphocytes.
Analysis of IL-2 and IL-2R alpha expression demonstrated that the perturbation of the proliferation response was not attributable to an abnormal expression of these genes.
In contrast, expression of IL-4, IL-10, and IFN-gamma was strongly inhibited in the transgenic T cells.
The proliferative deficiency of the transgenic T cells was associated with an increased apoptosis.
New immunosuppressive drug PNU156804 blocks IL-2-dependent proliferation and NF-kappa B and AP-1 activation.
We had previously shown that the drug undecylprodigiosin -LRB- UP -RRB- blocks human lymphocyte proliferation in vitro.
We have now investigated the mechanism of action of a new analogue of UP, PNU156804, which shows a more favorable activity profile than UP in mice.
We demonstrate here that the biological effect of PNU156804 in vitro is indistinguishable from UP : PNU156804 blocks human T cell proliferation in mid-late G1, as determined by cell cycle analysis, expression of cyclins, and cyclin-dependent kinases and retinoblastoma phosphorylation.
In addition, we show that PNU156804 does not block significantly the induction of either IL-2 or IL-2R alpha - and gamma-chains but inhibits IL-2-dependent T cell proliferation.
We have investigated several molecular pathways that are known to be activated by IL-2 in T cells.
We show that PNU156804 does not inhibit c-myc and bcl-2 mRNA induction.
On the other hand, PNU156804 efficiently inhibits the activation of the NF-kappa B and AP-1 transcription factors.
PNU156804 inhibition of NF-kappa B activation is due to the inhibition of the degradation of I kappa B-alpha and I kappa B-beta.
PNU156804 action is restricted to some signaling pathways ; it does not affect NF-kappa B activation by PMA in T cells but blocks that induced by CD40 cross-linking in B lymphocytes.
We conclude that the prodigiosin family of immunosuppressants is a new family of molecules that show a novel target specificity clearly distinct from that of other immunosuppressive drugs such as cyclosporin A, FK506, and rapamycin.
Repression by Ikaros and Aiolos is mediated through histone deacetylase complexes.
Here we show that the lymphoid lineage-determining factors Ikaros and Aiolos can function as strong transcriptional repressors.
This function is mediated through two repression domains and is dependent upon the promoter context and cell type.
Repression by Ikaros proteins correlates with hypo-acetylation of core histones at promoter sites and is relieved by histone deacetylase inhibitors.
Consistent with these findings, Ikaros and its repression domains can interact in vivo and in vitro with the mSin3 family of co-repressors which bind to histone deacetylases.
Transcriptional regulation of T lymphocyte development and function.
The development and function of T lymphocytes are regulated tightly by signal transduction pathways that include specific cell-surface receptors, intracellular signaling molecules, and nuclear transcription factors.
Since 1988, several families of functionally important T cell transcription factors have been identified.
These include the Ikaros, LKLF, and GATA3 zinc-finger proteins ; the Ets, CREB/ATF, and NF-kappa B/Rel/NFAT transcription factors ; the Stat proteins ; and HMG box transcription factors such as LEF1, TCF1, and Sox4.
In this review, we summarize our current understanding of the transcriptional regulation of T cell development and function with particular emphasis on the results of recent gene targeting and transgenic experiments.
IL-12 induces IFN regulating factor-1 -LRB- IRF-1 -RRB- gene expression in human NK and T cells.
IL-12 is a critical immunoregulatory cytokine that promotes cell-mediated immune responses and the differentiation of naive CD4 + cells to Th1 cells ; however, relatively few IL-12 target genes have been identified.
To better clarify the molecular basis of IL-12 action, we set out to characterize genes up-regulated by IL-12, first by contrasting IL-12 - and IFN-alpha-inducible genes.
We identified several genes up-regulated by IL-12, namely, MIP-1alpha, MIP-1beta, IL-1RA, and IFN regulatory factor-1 -LRB- IRF-1 -RRB-.
IRF-1 is a transcription factor regulated by IFNs that is also essential for Th1 responses.
We demonstrated that IL-12 directly up-regulates IRF-1 to the same extent as IFN-alpha in normal human T cells and in NK cells.
We showed that IL-12 had a direct effect on IRF-1, an effect not mediated indirectly by the induction of IFN-gamma production.
Furthermore, IL-2 and IL-12 synergistically induced IRF-1, whereas IFN-alpha and IL-12 did not.
The participation of STAT4 in the regulation of IRF-1 was demonstrated in two ways.
First, STAT4 was required for the IL-12-dependent transactivation of an IRF-1 reporter construct, and second, STAT4 binding to the IRF-1 promoter was shown using EMSA.
In contrast to IL-12, no up-regulation of IRF-1 was found in IL-4-stimulated cells, and IL-4 did not block IL-12-dependent up-regulation of IRF-1.
Direct interaction of hematopoietic transcription factors PU .1 and GATA-1 : functional antagonism in erythroid cells.
Malignant transformation usually inhibits terminal cell differentiation but the precise mechanisms involved are not understood.
PU .1 is a hematopoietic-specific Ets family transcription factor that is required for development of some lymphoid and myeloid lineages.
PU .1 can also act as an oncoprotein as activation of its expression in erythroid precursors by proviral insertion or transgenesis causes erythroleukemias in mice.
Here we investigate the mechanism by which PU .1 interferes with erythroid differentiation.
We find that PU .1 interacts directly with GATA-1, a zinc finger transcription factor required for erythroid differentiation.
Interaction between PU .1 and GATA-1 requires intact DNA-binding domains in both proteins.
PU .1 represses GATA-1-mediated transcriptional activation.
Both the DNA binding and transactivation domains of PU .1 are required for repression and both domains are also needed to block terminal differentiation in MEL cells.
We also show that ectopic expression of PU .1 in Xenopus embryos is sufficient to block erythropoiesis during normal development.
Furthermore, introduction of exogenous GATA-1 in both MEL cells and Xenopus embryos and explants relieves the block to erythroid differentiation imposed by PU .1.
Binding of YY1 and Oct1 to a novel element that downregulates expression of IL-5 in human T cells.
BACKGROUND : IL-5 controls development of eosinophilia and has been shown to be involved in the pathogenesis of allergic diseases.
In both atopic and nonatopic asthma, elevated IL-5 has been detected in peripheral blood and the airways.
IL-5 is produced mainly by activated T cells, and its expression is regulated at the transcriptional level.
OBJECTIVE : This study focuses on the functional analysis of the human IL-5 -LRB- hIL-5 -RRB- promoter and characterization of cis - regulatory elements and transcription factors involved in the suppression of IL-5 transcription in T cells.
METHODS : Methods used in this study include DNase I footprint assays, electrophoretic mobility shift assays, and functional analysis by mammalian cell transfection involving deletion analysis and site-directed mutagenesis.
RESULTS : We identified 5 protein binding regions -LRB- BRs -RRB- located within the proximal hIL-5 promoter.
Two of these regions, BR3 and BR4 located at positions -102 to -73, have not previously been described as regulators of IL-5 expression in T cells.
We show that the BR3 sequence contains a novel negative regulatory element located at positions -90 to -79 of the hIL-5 promoter, which binds Oct1, octamer-like, and YY1 nuclear factors.
Substitution mutations, which abolished binding of these proteins to the BR3 sequence, significantly increased hIL-5 promoter activity in activated T cells.
Human alveolar macrophages are markedly deficient in REF-1 and AP-1 DNA binding activity.
Although many functions of human alveolar macrophages are altered compared with their precursor cell, the blood monocyte -LRB- monocyte -RRB-, the reason -LRB- s -RRB- for these functional changes have not been determined.
We recently reported that human alveolar macrophages do not express AP-1 DNA binding activity -LRB- Monick, M. M., Carter, A. B., Gudmundsson, G., Geist, L. J., and Hunninghake, G. W. -LRB- 1998 -RRB- Am. J. Physiol. 275, L389-L397 -RRB-.
To determine why alveolar macrophages do not express AP-1 DNA binding activity, we first showed that there was not a decrease in expression of the FOS and JUN proteins that make up the AP-1 complex.
There was, however, a significant difference in the amounts of the nuclear protein, REF-1 -LRB- which regulates AP-1 DNA binding by altering the redox status of FOS and JUN proteins -RRB-, in alveolar macrophages compared with monocytes.
In addition, in vitro differentiation of monocytes to a macrophage-like cell resulted in decreased amounts of REF-1.
Finally, addition of REF-1 from activated monocytes to alveolar macrophage nuclear proteins resulted in a marked increase in AP-1 DNA binding.
Potent and stable attenuation of live-HIV-1 by gain of a proteolysis-resistant inhibitor of NF-kappaB -LRB- IkappaB-alphaS32 / 36A -RRB- and the implications for vaccine development.
Live-attenuated human immunodeficiency viruses -LRB- HIVs -RRB- are candidates for Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome -LRB- AIDS -RRB- vaccine.
Based on the simian immunodeficiency virus -LRB- SIV -RRB- model for AIDS, loss-of-function -LRB- e.g. deletion of accessory genes such as nef -RRB- has been forwarded as a primary approach for creating enfeebled, but replication-competent, HIV-1 / SIV.
New strategies that attenuate via mechanisms distinct from loss-of-function are needed for enhancing the safety phenotype of viral genome.
Here, we propose gain-of-function to be used simultaneously with loss-of-function as a novel approach for attenuating HIV-1.
We have constructed an HIV-1 genome carrying the cDNA of a proteolysis-resistant nuclear factor-kappaB inhibitor -LRB- IkappaB-alphaS32 / 36A -RRB- in the nef region.
HIV-1 expressing IkappaB-alphaS32 / 36A down-regulates viral expression and is highly attenuated in both Jurkat and peripheral blood mononuclear cells.
We provide formal proof that the phenotypic and attenuating characteristics of IkappaB-alphaS32 / 36A permit its stable maintenance in a live, replicating HIV-1 despite 180 days of forced ex vivo passaging in tissue culture.
As compared with other open-reading frames embedded into HIV/SIV genome, this degree of stability is unprecedented.
Thus, IkappaB-alphaS32 / 36A offers proof-of-principle that artifactually gained functions, when used to attenuate the replication of live HIV-1, can be stable.
These findings illustrate gain-of-function as a feasible strategy for developing safer live-attenuated HIVs to be tested as candidates for AIDS vaccine.
Novel therapies for inflammatory bowel disease.
Looking back at successes and failures in newer approaches to treating IBD, it is tempting -- although still difficult -- to draw conclusions about pathogenesis.
When a therapy proves effective, do clinicians truly know how it works ?.
The disappointing results of clinical trials with IL-10 -- so at odds with the prediction of benefit from animal models -- bring into question the validity of those models as well as the soundness of design of the clinical trials on which efficacy of IL-10 is judged.
For the moment, however, the field of pharmacogenetics is embryonic.
Challenges in developing new therapeutic strategies include not only identifying novel agents, but also improving the definitions of clinical endpoints and defining efficacy at the biologic level.
A polymorphism that affects OCT-1 binding to the TNF promoter region is associated with severe malaria -LSB- see comments -RSB-.
Through systematic DNA footprinting of the TNF -LRB- encoding tumour necrosis factor, TNF -RRB- promoter region, we have identified a single nucleotide polymorphism -LRB- SNP -RRB- that causes the helix-turn-helix transcription factor OCT-1 to bind to a novel region of complex protein-DNA interactions and alters gene expression in human monocytes.
The OCT-1-binding genotype, found in approximately 5 % of Africans, is associated with fourfold increased susceptibility to cerebral malaria in large case-control studies of West African and East African populations, after correction for other known TNF polymorphisms and linked HLA alleles.
The intracellular parasite Theileria parva protects infected T cells from apoptosis.
Parasites have evolved a plethora of strategies to ensure their survival.
The intracellular parasite Theileria parva secures its propagation and spreads through the infected animal by infecting and transforming T cells, inducing their continuous proliferation and rendering them metastatic.
In previous work, we have shown that the parasite induces constitutive activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB, by inducing the constitutive degradation of its cytoplasmic inhibitors.
The biological significance of NF-kappaB activation in T. parva-infected cells, however, has not yet been defined.
Cells that have been transformed by viruses or oncogenes can persist only if they manage to avoid destruction by the apoptotic mechanisms that are activated on transformation and that contribute to maintain cellular homeostasis.
We now demonstrate that parasite-induced NF-kappaB activation plays a crucial role in the survival of T. parva-transformed T cells by conveying protection against an apoptotic signal that accompanies parasite-mediated transformation.
Consequently, inhibition of NF-kappaB nuclear translocation and the expression of dominant negative mutant forms of components of the NF-kappaB activation pathway, such as IkappaBalpha or p65, prompt rapid apoptosis of T. parva-transformed T cells.
Our findings offer important insights into parasite survival strategies and demonstrate that parasite-induced constitutive NF-kappaB activation is an essential step in maintaining the transformed phenotype of the infected cells.
PPARalpha activators inhibit cytokine-induced vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 expression in human endothelial cells.
BACKGROUND : Adhesion molecule expression on the endothelial cell -LRB- EC -RRB- surface is critical for leukocyte recruitment to atherosclerotic lesions.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha -LRB- PPARalpha -RRB-, a member of the nuclear receptor family, regulates gene expression in response to certain fatty acids and fibric acid derivatives.
The present study investigated PPARalpha expression in human ECs and their regulation of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- VCAM-1 -RRB-.
METHODS AND RESULTS : Immunohistochemistry revealed that human carotid artery ECs express PPARalpha.
Pretreatment of cultured human ECs with the PPARalpha activators fenofibrate or WY14643 inhibited TNF-alpha-induced VCAM-1 in a time - and concentration-dependent manner, an effect not seen with PPARgamma activators.
Both PPARalpha activators decreased cytokine-induced VCAM-1 mRNA expression without altering its mRNA half-life.
Finally, PPARalpha activators significantly reduced adhesion of U937 cells to cultured human ECs.
Such findings also have implications regarding the clinical use of lipid-lowering agents, like fibric acids, which can activate PPARalpha.
NF-kappa B as inducible transcriptional activator of the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor gene.
The expression of the gene encoding the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB- is induced upon activation of T cells with phytohemagglutinin and active phorbolester and upon expression of tax1, a transactivating protein of the human T-cell leukemia virus type I..
The same agents induce transcription from the interleukin-2 receptor alpha-chain and interleukin-2 genes, depending on promoter elements that bind the inducible transcription factor NF-kappa B -LRB- or an NF-kappa B-like factor -RRB-.
A recent functional analysis by Miyatake et al. -LRB- S. Miyatake, M. Seiki, M. Yoshida, and K. Arai, Mol. Cell. Biol. 8:5581 -5587, 1988 -RRB- described a short promoter region in the GM-CSF gene that conferred strong inducibility by T-cell-activating signals and tax1, but no NF-kappa B-binding motifs were identified.
Using electrophoretic mobility shift assays, we showed binding of purified human NF-kappa B and of the NF-kappa B activated in Jurkat T cells to an oligonucleotide comprising the GM-CSF promoter element responsible for mediating responsiveness to T-cell-activating signals and tax1.
As shown by a methylation interference analysis and oligonucleotide competition experiments, purified NF-kappa B binds at positions -82 to -91 -LRB- GGGAACTACC -RRB- of the GM-CSF promoter sequence with an affinity similar to that with which it binds to the biologically functional kappa B motif in the beta interferon promoter -LRB- GGGAAATTCC -RRB-.
Two kappa B-like motifs at positions -98 to -108 of the GM-CSF promoter were also recognized but with much lower affinities.
Our data provide strong evidence that the expression of the GM-CSF gene following T-cell activation is controlled by binding of the NF-kappa B transcription factor to a high-affinity binding site in the GM-CSF promoter.
Cell type specificity and activation requirements for NFAT-1 -LRB- nuclear factor of activated T-cells -RRB- transcriptional activity determined by a new method using transgenic mice to assay transcriptional activity of an individual nuclear factor.
We have developed a system to monitor the transcriptional activity of NFAT-1 at the single cell level in whole animals.
The system is based on the use of an oligomerized NFAT-1 binding motif that directs transcription of SV40 T-antigen in transgenic mice.
This report represents the first demonstration that a multimerized short binding motif can function appropriately in transgenic mice.
By targeting NFAT-1-dependent gene expression in transgenic mice we discovered new sites of NFAT-1 activity.
Besides in T-lymphocytes NFAT-1 activity could also be induced in T-lymphocyte-depleted spleen cells and purified B-lymphocytes and requires agents that both release intracellular calcium and activate protein kinase C..
A difference in the time course of appearance of NFAT-1 activity between T-lymphocytes and non-T-lymphocytes was revealed.
Constitutive expression was observed in a small population of cells in the dermis and some mice have developed skin lesions.
Interestingly, the tissue pattern of expression of the NFAT-1 activity resembles the expression pattern described for HIV-LTR/tat transgenic mice -LRB- Vogel, J., Hinrichs, S. H., Reynolds, R. K., Luciw, P. A., and Jay, G. -LRB- 1988 -RRB- Nature 335, 606-611 -RRB-.
Tax-independent binding of multiple cellular factors to Tax-response element DNA of HTLV-I.
The human T-cell leukemia virus type I -LRB- HTLV-I -RRB- promoter contains three copies of imperfect repeats of a 21-base pair sequence designated here as TRE -LRB- Tax-response element -RRB- that is responsive to the virally encoded transactivator protein Tax.
We have identified and separated four nuclear proteins from C81-66-45 cells, an HTLV-I immortalized Tax-expressing human T-lymphocyte line -LRB- Salahuddin et al., 1983 -RRB-, that interact with the TRE-DNA, none of which are identical with the Tax-protein.
The proteins identified have molecular weights of about 32, 36 to 42, 50 and 110 kD.
Four different methods were used to identify the proteins.
First, from different cell lines three or all four of the nuclear proteins were specifically cross-linked by UV irradiation to the radioactively labeled TRE-DNA fragment.
Second, TRE-DNA binding proteins sedimented through a glycerol density gradient at rates corresponding to proteins of native molecular weights of 35 to 50 kD and 110 kD.
Third, only the 50 kD protein was retained on a biotinylated DNA-streptavidin matrix when the DNA fragment contained the TRE-DNA.
Fourth, extensive purification by several cycles of TRE-DNA affinity chromatography resulted in the 32, 36 to 42 and 110 kD proteins and to less extent the 50 kD factor.
Two abundant proteins of 75 and 80 kD were competed out by poly -LSB- d -LRB- I-C -RRB- -RSB- in all reactions.
The ubiquitous octamer-binding protein -LRB- s -RRB- is sufficient for transcription of immunoglobulin genes.
All immunoglobulin genes contain a conserved octanucleotide promoter element, ATGCAAAT, which has been shown to be required for their normal B-cell-specific transcription.
Proteins that bind this octamer have been purified, and cDNAs encoding octamer-binding proteins have been cloned.
We have identified two human pre-B-cell lines that contain extremely low levels of OTF-2 yet still express high levels of steady-state immunoglobulin heavy-chain mRNA in vivo and efficiently transcribe an immunoglobulin gene in vitro.
Addition of a highly enriched preparation of OTF-1 made from one of these pre-B cells or from HeLa cells specifically stimulated in vitro transcription of an immunoglobulin gene.
Characterization of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 enhancer-binding proteins from the human T-cell line Jurkat.
The transcription of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- is under the control of cellular proteins that bind to the viral long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB-.
Among the protein-binding regions of the HIV-1 LTR is the transcription-enhancer region.
We show that at least one inducible, C1, and one constitutive, C2, protein can bind to the HIV enhancer in Jurkat cells.
The two proteins differ in their surface charge, since they are separable by anion-exchange chromatography.
Bivalent cations such as Mg2 + and Zn2 + differentially affect their binding to oligonucleotides which contain the HIV-enhancer domain.
Both C1 and C2 proteins also bind to a similar sequence found in the interleukin-2-receptor alpha-subunit enhancer.
The inducible C1 protein was partially purified by three chromatographic steps and characterized by u.v. cross-linking as a 47 kDa protein.
Functional analysis of cis-linked regulatory sequences in the HLA DRA promoter by transcription in vitro.
Two consensus sequences, called X and Y boxes, capable of binding nuclear proteins and regulating expression in B cells have been defined within the immediate upstream region of major histocompatibility complex -LRB- MHC -RRB- class II promoters.
Unlike other class II promoters, the HLA-DR alpha -LRB- DRA -RRB- promoter also contains one element identical to the `` octamer '' motif of immunoglobulin variable region promoters that is responsible for B cell-specific transcription.
In order to characterize the function of cis-acting elements, we have developed an in vitro system in which a DRA promoter construct is transcribed more efficiently in extracts from B cells than in extracts from class II-negative HeLa cells.
5' deletion constructs which lacked the Y box, but retained the `` octamer '' motif and TATA box were completely inactive, and internal deletion of the Y box reduced transcription by 95 %.
An in vitro globin gene switching model based on differentiated embryonic stem cells.
We used mouse embryonic stem -LRB- ES -RRB- cells to study globin gene expression and switching in vitro.
We show that ES-derived embryoid bodies express the full complement of mouse embryonic globin genes in the correct temporal order and that on further differentiation, a switch occurs to the fetal/adult genes.
In addition, the erythroid-specific transcription factor NF-E1 was shown to be expressed coordinately with that of globin in embryoid bodies.
We conclude from these experiments that the ES cell system provides a good model to study hematopoietic development.
When the human epsilon - or beta-globin genes driven by the dominant control region -LRB- DCR -RRB- are introduced into this system, the human epsilon-globin gene, in contrast to the beta-globin gene, is not deregulated by the presence of the DCR and is expressed strictly as an embryonic gene.
We conclude from this that the epsilon-globin gene is not regulated by competition with other genes in the human beta-globin locus.
Differences in transcriptional enhancers of HIV-1 and HIV-2.
Response to T cell activation signals.
In HIV-1, the sequences that respond to these signaling events are found in the long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- and comprise the transcriptional enhancer, which contains two conserved binding sites for the nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF kappa B -RRB-.
The corresponding region in the second AIDS retrovirus, HIV-2, contains a conserved and a divergent NF kappa B binding site.
We demonstrate that the HIV-1 LTR responds better than the HIV-2 LTR to T cell activation signals.
These qualitative differences in the response to T cell activation are reproduced not only when HIV-1 or HIV-2 enhancers are placed upstream of a heterologous promoter but also when these enhancers are switched between their respective LTR.
In electrophoretic mobility shift assays, NF kappa B binds to both conserved sites in the HIV-1 transcriptional enhancer and only to the single conserved site in the HIV-2 transcriptional enhancer.
Instead of NF kappa B, the activator protein 3 binds to the divergent site in HIV-2.
Regulation of gene expression with double-stranded phosphorothioate oligonucleotides.
Alteration of gene transcription by inhibition of specific transcriptional regulatory proteins is necessary for determining how these factors participate in cellular differentiation.
The functions of these proteins can be antagonized by several methods, each with specific limitations.
Inhibition of sequence-specific DNA-binding proteins was achieved with double-stranded -LRB- ds -RRB- phosphorothioate oligonucleotides that contained octamer or kappa B consensus sequences.
The phosphorothioate oligonucleotides specifically bound either octamer transcription factor or nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappa B..
The modified oligonucleotides accumulated in cells more effectively than standard ds oligonucleotides and modulated gene expression in a specific manner.
Octamer-dependent activation of a reporter plasmid or NF-kappa B-dependent activation of the human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- enhancer was inhibited when the appropriate phosphorothioate oligonucleotide was added to a transiently transfected B cell line.
Addition of phosphorothioate oligonucleotides that contained the octamer consensus to Jurkat T leukemia cells inhibited interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- secretion to a degree similar to that observed with a mutated octamer site in the IL-2 enhancer.
Cloning of a mitogen-inducible gene encoding a kappa B DNA-binding protein with homology to the rel oncogene and to cell-cycle motifs.
We have cloned and characterized a mitogen-inducible gene isolated from human T cells that predicts a protein of 968 amino acids.
The amino-terminal domain has regions homologous to the oncogene rel and to the developmentally important gene dorsal of Drosophila.
The carboxy-terminal domain contains repeat structures found in a variety of proteins that are involved in cell-cycle control of yeast and in tissue differentiation in Drosophila and Ceanorhabditis elegans, as well as in the putative human oncogene bcl-3 and in the ankyrin protein.
A truncated form of the product of this gene translated in vitro is a DNA-binding protein which interacts specifically with the kappa B binding site found in many inducible genes, including the enhancer in human immunodeficiency virus.
This gene is yet another in a growing list of important regulatory molecules whose expression is transcriptionally induced upon cellular activation.
Astrocytes and glioblastoma cells express novel octamer-DNA binding proteins distinct from the ubiquitous Oct-1 and B cell type Oct-2 proteins.
The ` octamer' sequence, ATGCAAAT or its complement ATTTGCAT, is a key element for the transcriptional regulation of immunoglobulin genes in B-lymphocytes as well as a number of housekeeping genes in all cell types.
Various other genes, for example interleukin-1 and MHC class II genes, contain an octamer sequence in the promoter and are expressed in cells of both the immune and nervous systems.
This prompted us to analyze the octamer-binding proteins in the latter cells.
Using the electrophoretic mobility shift assay, at least six novel octamer binding proteins were detected in nuclear extracts of cultured mouse astrocytes.
These proteins are differentially expressed in human glioblastoma and neuroblastoma cell lines.
The nervous system-derived -LRB- N-Oct -RRB- proteins bound to the octamer DNA sequence in a manner which is indistinguishable from the Oct-1 and Oct-2A proteins.
The relationship of the N-Oct proteins to Oct-1 and Oct-2A was analyzed by proteolytic clipping bandshift assays and by their reactivity towards antisera raised against recombinant Oct-1 and Oct-2A proteins.
On the basis of these assays, all N-Oct-factors were found to be distinct from the ubiquitous Oct-1 and the lymphoid-specific Oct-2A proteins.
In melanoma cells that contain the N-Oct-3 factor, a transfected lymphocyte-specific promoter was neither activated nor was it repressed upon contransfection with an Oct-2A expression vector.
Cell-specific differences in activation of NF-kappa B regulatory elements of human immunodeficiency virus and beta interferon promoters by tumor necrosis factor.
Three aspects of the involvement of tumor necrosis factor in human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- pathogenesis were examined.
Tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- mRNA production was analyzed by polymerase chain reaction amplification in monocytic U937 cells and in a chronically HIV infected U937 cell line -LRB- U9-IIIB -RRB-.
TNF-alpha RNA was undetectable in U937 cells, whereas a low constitutive level was detected in U9-IIIB cells.
The effects of TNF-alpha on gene expression were examined by transient expression assays using reporter chloramphenicol acetyltransferase plasmids linked to regulatory elements from the HIV long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- and the beta interferon promoter.
In U937 and Jurkat T lymphoid cells, the inducibility of the different hybrid promoters by TNF-alpha or phorbol ester varied in a cell type - and promoter context-specific manner ; the levels of gene activity of NF-kappa B-containing plasmids correlated directly with induction of NF-kappa B DNA-binding activity.
Although the intact beta interferon promoter was only weakly stimulated by phorbol ester or TNF-alpha, multimers of the PRDII NF-kappa B-binding domain were inducible by both agents.
TNF-alpha was able to increase expression of the HIV LTR in T cells, but in monocytic cells, TNF-alpha did not induce the HIV LTR above a constitutive level of activity.
Inducible nuclear factor binding to the kappa B elements of the human immunodeficiency virus enhancer in T cells can be blocked by cyclosporin A in a signal-dependent manner.
In addition, the activation of the human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- is partially suppressed.
To better understand the molecular mechanisms underlying suppression by CsA, we have investigated the effects of this drug on transcription factors in T cells.
Here we report that the formation of two distinct mitogen-inducible DNA-binding complexes, the kappa B complex within the HIV enhancer and the NFAT-1 complex within the interleukin-2 enhancer, is inhibited in the presence of CsA.
The kappa B-binding activity with the HIV enhancer is inhibited only if it is activated via the mitogen phytohemagglutinin whereas phorbol myristate acetate-mediated activation is completely insensitive to the drug.
Lipopolysaccharide is a potent monocyte/macrophage-specific stimulator of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 expression.
Lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- potently stimulates human immunodeficiency virus type 1-long terminal repeat -LRB- HIV-1-LTR -RRB- CAT constructs transfected into monocyte/macrophage-like cell lines but not a T cell line.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays demonstrate that LPS induces a DNA binding activity indistinguishable from NF-kappa B in U937 and THP-1 cells.
LPS is also shown to dramatically increase HIV-1 production from a chronically infected monocyte/macrophage-like cloned cell line, U1, which produces very low levels of HIV-1 at baseline.
The stimulation of viral production from this cell line occurs only if these cells are treated with granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB- before treatment with LPS.
This stimulation of HIV-1 production is correlated with an increase in the level of HIV-1 RNA and and activation of NF-kappa B..
LPS is not able to induce HIV-1 production in a cloned T cell line.
Involvement of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinases in the signal transduction pathway for interleukin-1.
Expression of a highly specific protein inhibitor for cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinases in interleukin-1 -LRB- IL-1 -RRB- - responsive cells blocked IL-1-induced gene transcription that was driven by the kappa immunoglobulin enhancer or the human immunodeficiency virus long terminal repeat.
Characterization of defensin resistance phenotypes associated with mutations in the phoP virulence regulon of Salmonella typhimurium.
The defensin sensitivities of Salmonella typhimurium strains with mutations in the phoP/phoQ two-component virulence regulon were tested by using purified defensins NP-1 and NP-2.
Strains with mutations in either gene of the regulatory pair -LRB- phoP -LSB- transcriptional activator -RSB- or phoQ -LSB- membrane sensor kinase -RSB- -RRB- had increased sensitivities to defensin.
We found that resistance to defensin requires the function of both components of this regulatory system, because strains expressing PhoQ without PhoP were still markedly sensitive to defensins.
We also tested for the ability of defensins NP-1, NP-5, and HNP-1 to activate pag expression and found that these peptides have no effect.
Defensin resistance is not the only virulence characteristic controlled by the PhoP-PhoQ regulon because mutations in pagC, as well as ones in the phoP locus that resulted in constitutive pag activation -LRB- phenotype PhoPc -RRB-, had no effect on defensin resistance, even though they rendered the organism avirulent and deficient in survival within macrophages.
The virulence defect conferred by mutations in the phoP-phoQ two-component regulatory system is not completely explained by alterations in resistance to cationic proteins and involves the control of other proteins necessary for S. typhimurium survival within macrophages.
Tolerance to lipopolysaccharide involves mobilization of nuclear factor kappa B with predominance of p50 homodimers.
Stimulation of the human monocytic cell line Mono Mac 6 with lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- leads to rapid and transient expression of cytokines like tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB-.
When such cells are precultured for 2 days with a low dose of LPS -LRB- 20 ng/ml -RRB- followed by stimulation with a high dose of LPS -LRB- 1 microgram/ml -RRB-, expression of the TNF gene is minimal, i.e. the cells are tolerant.
Resolution of the NF-kappa B complex in gel shift analysis shows that the binding protein, mobilized in naive Mono Mac 6 cells, consists mainly of p50-p65 heterodimers, while in tolerant cells, the p50 homodimer is predominant.
Reporter gene analysis reveals that the NF-kappa B complex mobilized in tolerant cells is functionally inactive in that NF-kappa B-dependent luciferase constructs containing the human immunodeficiency virus long terminal repeat or the TNF 5' - region show only minimal transactivation after LPS stimulation.
Similar to Mono Mac 6 cells, primary blood monocytes, when precultured with a low dose of LPS, also become tolerant and produce little TNF after LPS stimulation.
The tolerant blood monocytes also up-regulate CD14, and they mobilize NF-kappa B with a predominance of p50 homodimers.
Taken together, these results demonstrate that tolerance to LPS is determined by post-receptor mechanisms that involve an altered composition of the NF-kappa B complex.
Alpha-tocopherol inhibits agonist-induced monocytic cell adhesion to cultured human endothelial cells.
Antioxidants have been proposed to be anti-atherosclerotic agents ; however, the mechanisms underlying their beneficial effects are poorly understood.
We have examined the effect of alpha-tocopherol -LRB- alpha-tcp -RRB- on one cellular event in atherosclerotic plaque development, monocyte adhesion to stimulated endothelial cells -LRB- ECs -RRB-.
Human umbilical vein ECs were pretreated with alpha-tcp before stimulation with known agonists of monocyte adhesion : IL-1 -LRB- 10 ng/ml -RRB-, LPS -LRB- 10 ng/ml -RRB-, thrombin -LRB- 30 U/ml -RRB-, or PMA -LRB- 10 nM -RRB-.
Agonist-induced monocytic cell adhesion, but not basal adhesion, was inhibited in a time - and concentration-dependent manner by alpha-tcp.
The IC50 of alpha-tcp on an IL-1-induced response was 45 microM.
The inhibition correlated with a decrease in steady state levels of E-selectin mRNA and cell surface expression of E-selectin which is consistent with the ability of a monoclonal antibody to E-selectin to inhibit monocytic cell adhesion in this system.
Probucol -LRB- 50 microM -RRB- and N-acetylcysteine -LRB- 20 mM -RRB- also inhibited agonist-induced monocytic cell adhesion ; whereas, several other antioxidants had no significant effect.
Activation of the transcription factor NF-kappa B is reported to be necessary but not sufficient for E-selectin expression in EC.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays failed to show an alpha-tcp-induced decrease in activation of this transcription factor after cytokine stimulation.
Our results point to a novel alternative mechanism of action of alpha-tcp.
The interleukin-8 AP-1 and kappa B-like sites are genetic end targets of FK506-sensitive pathway accompanied by calcium mobilization.
FK506, an immunosuppressant, inhibits the production of several cytokines in T lymphocytes.
We observed that FK506 suppressed the transcription of a chemotactic cytokine, interleukin-8 -LRB- IL-8 -RRB- in a human T cell line, Jurkat cells, activated by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- and calcium -LRB- Ca2 + -RRB- ionophore -LRB- ionomycin -RRB-.
By deleted and mutated analysis of the IL-8 promoters, the AP-1 and kappa B-like sites were identified as the responsive elements for PMA and ionomycin.
FK506 suppressed the transcriptions through the AP-1 or kappa B-like sites induced by PMA plus Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - mobilizing agents, but not those induced by Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - independent stimuli.
In gel retardation analysis, FK506 had little effect on the binding to the AP-1 site of PMA/ionomycin-induced nuclear factors, which were recognized with anti-JunD or c-Fos antibody.
In contrast, FK506 or EGTA -LRB- Ca2 + chelator -RRB- similarly affected the formation of kappa B-like site binding complexes, which were not recognized by any antibodies against the human Rel family proteins -LRB- c-Rel, p65, p50, and p49 -RRB-.
Sp1 is a critical factor for the monocytic specific expression of human CD14.
CD14 is a membrane glycoprotein expressed specifically on monocytes and macrophages, and its expression is markedly increased during the process of monocyte differentiation.
In order to study CD14 gene regulation, the human CD14 gene was cloned from a partial EcoRI digested chromosome 5 library.
A 5.5-kilobase genomic clone contained the full-length CD14 coding sequence and 4.2 kilobases of 5' - upstream sequence.
One major and one minor transcription start site were identified 101 and 130 base pairs -LRB- bp -RRB- upstream, respectively, from the protein translation start ATG.
A DNA fragment containing 128 bp of upstream sequence had strong, monocyte-specific promoter activity in the CD14 positive monocytic cell line Mono Mac 6 as compared to the nonmonocytic cell lines HeLa and REX.
Four regions in this DNA fragment interact with nuclear proteins isolated from monocytic cells.
The Sp1 transcription factor bound to three different regions in the CD14 promoter.
Mutation of the major Sp1 binding site -LRB- -110 bp -RRB- decreased tissue-specific promoter activity, and these results, together with transactivation experiments, demonstrate that Sp1 plays a critical role in the tissue-specific expression of CD14 in monocytic cells.
Triggering of the human interleukin-6 gene by interferon-gamma and tumor necrosis factor-alpha in monocytic cells involves cooperation between interferon regulatory factor-1, NF kappa B, and Sp1 transcription factors.
We investigated the molecular basis of the synergistic induction by interferon-gamma -LRB- IFN-gamma -RRB- / tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- of human interleukin-6 -LRB- IL-6 -RRB- gene in THP-1 monocytic cells, and compared it with the basis of this induction by lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-.
LPS signaling was found to involve NF kappa B activation by the p50/p65 heterodimers.
Synergistic induction of the IL-6 gene by IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha, in monocytic cells, involved cooperation between the IRF-1 and NF kappa B p65 homodimers with concomitant removal of the negative effect of the retinoblastoma control element present in the IL-6 promoter.
This removal occurred by activation of the constitutive Sp1 factor, whose increased binding activity and phosphorylation were mediated by IFN-gamma.
Thrombin and thrombin receptor agonist peptide induce early events of T cell activation and synergize with TCR cross-linking for CD69 expression and interleukin 2 production.
Thrombin stimulation of the T leukemic cell line Jurkat induced a transient increase in -LSB- Ca2 + -RSB- i..
Proteolytic activity of the enzyme was required for this effect since diisopropyl fluorophosphate-thrombin failed to increase -LSB- Ca2 + -RSB- i..
Furthermore, hirudin and anti-thrombin III inhibited the thrombin-induced -LSB- Ca2 + -RSB- i rise in Jurkat T cells.
A synthetic thrombin receptor agonist peptide -LRB- TRP -RRB- of 7 residues -LRB- SFLLRNP -RRB- was found to be as effective as thrombin for -LSB- Ca2 + -RSB- i mobilization, and both agonists induced Ca2 + release exclusively from internal stores.
Thrombin stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of several proteins of molecular mass 40, 42, 70, 120, and 130 kDa.
There was a good correlation between thrombin-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the latter three proteins and Ca2 + mobilization.
Thrombin and TRP also caused translocation of protein kinase C from the cytosol to the plasma membrane.
Several cell lines of hematopoietic origin including the leukemic T cell line HPB.ALL and the erythroleukemic cell line K562 were responsive to thrombin, whereas others such as THP1, a myelomonocytic cell line, and BL2, a Burkitt lymphoma were refractory to thrombin or TRP stimulation.
The magnitude of the thrombin response in the different cell types paralleled the expression of the thrombin receptor mRNA.
We found that activation of Jurkat T cells by a combination of phytohemagglutinin and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate led to a dramatic inhibition of thrombin receptor mRNA expression and to a concomitant loss of the thrombin response.
Finally, we demonstrate that thrombin and TRP enhanced CD69 expression and interleukin 2 production induced by T cell receptor cross-linking in both Jurkat T cells and peripheral blood lymphocytes.
These findings highlight the role of thrombin as a potential regulator of T lymphocyte activation.
CIITA activates the expression of MHC class II genes in mouse T cells.
Recently the MHC class II transactivator -LRB- CIITA -RRB- has been reported to be a major regulatory factor for both the constitutive and IFN inducible expression of MHC class II genes.
Here we show that human T cells expressing MHC class II have CIITA transcripts while MHC class II-negative human T cells and mouse T cells do not.
The expression of MHC class II genes in mouse T cells can be reconstituted upon transfection with the human CIITA cDNA.
Identification of an I kappa B alpha-associated protein kinase in a human monocytic cell line and determination of its phosphorylation sites on I kappa B alpha.
Nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- is stored in the cytoplasm as an inactive form through interaction with I kappa B..
We have recently reported the establishment of a lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- - dependent cell-free activation system of NF-kappa B in association with the induction of I kappa B alpha phosphorylation.
In this study, we have identified a kinase in cell extracts from the LPS-stimulated human monocytic cell line, THP-1, that specifically binds and phosphorylates I kappa B alpha.
LPS stimulation transiently enhanced the I kappa B alpha-bound kinase activity in THP-1 cells.
Mutational analyses of I kappa B alpha and competition experiments with the synthetic peptides identified major phosphorylation sites by the bound kinase as Ser and Thr residues in the C-terminal acidic domain of I kappa B alpha.
Moreover, we show that the peptide, corresponding to the C-terminal acidic domain of I kappa B alpha, blocked the LPS-induced NF-kappa B activation as well as inducible phosphorylation of endogenous I kappa B alpha in a cell-free system using THP-1 cells.
Cupric ion blocks NF kappa B activation through inhibiting the signal-induced phosphorylation of I kappa B alpha.
A transcription factor NF kappa B, which regulates expression of various cellular genes involved in immune responses and viral genes including HIV, is sequestered in the cytoplasm as a complex with an inhibitory protein I kappa B..
Various extracellular signals induce phosphorylation and rapid degradation of I kappa B alpha to release NF kappa B..
Cu2 + was found to inhibit the activation of NF kappa B induced by TNF-alpha, TPA, or H2O2.
Neither phosphorylation nor degradation of I kappa B alpha was observed upon TNF-alpha stimulation in the presence of Cu2 +.
Salicylates inhibit lipopolysaccharide-induced transcriptional activation of the tissue factor gene in human monocytic cells.
Binding of plasma Factor VII/VIIa to the tissue factor -LRB- TF -RRB- receptor initiates the coagulation protease cascades.
TF expression by circulating monocytes is associated with thrombotic and inflammatory complications in a variety of diseases.
Transcriptional activation of the human TF gene in monocytic cells exposed to bacterial lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- is mediated by binding of c-Rel/p65 heterodimers to a kappa B site in the TF promoter.
Here, we report that a family of anti-inflammatory agents, known as the salicylates, inhibited LPS induction of TF activity and TF gene transcription in human monocytes and monocytic THP-1 cells at clinically relevant doses.
Furthermore, sodium salicylate blocked the LPS-induced proteolytic degradation of I kappa B alpha, which prevented the nuclear translocation of c-Rel/p65 heterodimers.
In contrast, two other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, ibuprofen and indomethacin, did not inhibit LPS induction of the TF gene.
Down-regulation of NF-kappa B protein levels in activated human lymphocytes by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 -LSB- published erratum appears in Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1996 Jan 9 ; 93 -LRB- 1 -RRB- :524 -RSB-.
The effect of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 -LSB- 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2 -RRB- D3 -RSB-, a steroid hormone with immunomodulating properties, on nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- proteins was examined in in vitro activated normal human lymphocytes by Western blot analysis.
Over a 72-hr period of activation, the expression of the 50-kDa NF-kappa B, p50, and its precursor, p105, was increased progressively.
When cells were activated in the presence of 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3, the levels of the mature protein as well as its precursor were decreased.
The effect of the hormone on the levels of p50 was demonstrable in the cytosolic and nuclear compartments ; it required between 4 and 8 hr and was specific, as 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 and 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 were ineffective.
Besides p50, 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 decreased the levels of another NF-kappa B protein, namely c-rel.
In addition, 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 decreased the abundance of a specific DNA-protein complex formed upon incubation of nuclear extracts from activated lymphocytes with a labeled NF-kappa B DNA binding motif.
Further, 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 inhibited the transcriptional activity of NF-kappa B in Jurkat cells transiently transfected with a construct containing four tandem repeats of the NF-kappa B binding sequence of the immunoglobulin kappa light chain gene linked to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene.
Costimulation requirement for AP-1 and NF-kappa B transcription factor activation in T cells.
The transcriptional activity of the IL-2 promoter requires T-cell costimulation delivered by the TCR and the auxiliary receptor CD28.
Several transcription factors participate in IL-2 promoter activation, among which are AP-1-like factors and NF-kappa B..
Protein phosphorylation has an important role in the regulation of these two factors : -LRB- 1 -RRB- it induces the transactivating capacity of the AP-1 protein c-Jun ; and -LRB- 2 -RRB- it is involved in the release of the cytoplasmic inhibitor, I kappa B, from NF-kappa B, allowing translocation of the latter into the nucleus.
We have recently shown that both phosphorylation processes require T-cell costimulation.
Furthermore, in activated T cells, the kinetics of the two phosphorylation events are essentially similar.
According to our results, however, the kinases responsible for the two processes are distinct entities.
Whereas TPCK inhibits phosphorylation of I kappa B and, consequently, activation of NF-kappa B, it markedly enhances the activity of JNK, the MAP kinase-related kinase that phosphorylates the transactivation domain of c-Jun.
We, therefore, propose the activation scheme presented in FIGURE 3 for T-cell costimulation.
Costimulation results in the activation of a signaling pathway that leads to the simultaneous induction of the two transcription factors, AP-1 and NF-kappa B..
Integration of the signals generated by TCR and CD28 engagement occurs along this pathway, which then bifurcates to induce I kappa B phosphorylation and NF-kappa B activation on the one hand, and JNK activation and c-Jun phosphorylation on the other.
We are currently engaged in defining where the two signals integrate along the AP-1 / NF-kappa B pathway.
Tissue-specific regulation of the rabbit 15-lipoxygenase gene in erythroid cells by a transcriptional silencer.
The 15-lipoxygenase -LRB- lox -RRB- gene is expressed in a tissue-specific manner, predominantly in erythroid cells but also in airway epithelial cells and eosinophils.
We demonstrate in this report that the 5' flanking DNA of the 15-lox gene contains sequences which down-regulate its activity in a variety of non-erythroid cell lines but not in two erythroid cell lines.
The element has characteristics of a transcriptional ` silencer' since it functions in both orientations.
The main activity of the silencer has been mapped to the first 900 bp of 5' flanking DNA, which contains nine binding sites for a nuclear factor present in non-erythroid cells but not in erythroid cells.
These binding sites have similar sequences and multiple copies of the binding sites confer tissue-specific down-regulation when attached to a minimal lox promoter fragment.
The 5' flanking DNA also contains a cluster of three binding sites for the GATA family of transcription factors.
Coexpression of NF-kappa B/Rel and Sp1 transcription factors in human immunodeficiency virus 1-induced, dendritic cell-T-cell syncytia.
Productive infection of T cells with human immunodeficiency virus 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- typically requires that the T cells be stimulated with antigens or mitogens.
This requirement has been attributed to the activation of the transcription factor NF-kappa B, which synergizes with the constitutive transcription factor Sp1 to drive the HIV-1 promoter.
Recently, we have found that vigorous replication of HIV-1 takes place in nonactivated memory T cells after syncytium formation with dendritic cells -LRB- DCs -RRB-.
These syncytia lack activated cells as determined by an absence of staining for Ki-67 cell cycle antigen.
The expression and activity of NF-kappa B and Sp1 were, therefore, analyzed in isolated T cells and DCs from humans and mice.
We have used immunolabeling, Western blot analysis, and electrophoretic mobility shift and supershift assays.
T cells lack active NF-kappa B but express Sp1 as expected.
DCs express high levels of all known NF-kappa B and Rel proteins, with activity residing primarily within RelB, p50, and p65.
Coexpression of NF-kappa B and Sp1 occurs in the heterologous DC-T-cell syncytia that are induced by HIV-1.
Therefore, HIV-1-induced cell fusion brings together factors that upregulate virus transcription.
Since DCs and memory T cells frequently traffic together in situ, these unusual heterologous syncytia could develop in infected individuals and lead to chronic HIV-1 replication without ostensible immune stimulation.
Octamer transcription factors and the cell type-specificity of immunoglobulin gene expression.
Antibodies are produced exclusively in B lymphocytes.
The expression of the antibody-encoding genes, the immunoglobulin -LRB- Ig -RRB- genes, is also restricted to B cells.
The octamer sequence ATGCAAAT is present in the promoter and the enhancer of Ig genes, and plays an important role in its tissue-specific expression.
This sequence motif is a binding site for nuclear proteins, the so-called octamer transcription factors -LRB- Oct or OTF factors -RRB-.
The Oct-1 protein is present in all cell types analyzed so far, whereas Oct-2A and Oct-2B are found mainly in B lymphocytes.
All three proteins show the same sequence specificity and binding affinity.
Recently, a number of other octamer factor variants were identified.
ETS1 transactivates the human GM-CSF promoter in Jurkat T cells stimulated with PMA and ionomycin.
Activation of T helper cells results in coordinate expression of a number of cytokines involved in differentiation, proliferation and activation of the haematopoietic system.
Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB- is one such cytokine whose increased expression results partly from increases in transcription.
Cis-acting elements with NF kappa B, AP-1 and ETS-like motifs have been identified in the promoter region of the GM-CSF gene, which are important for transcriptional activity following PMA and ionomycin stimulation.
A number of the ETS family of transcription factors are expressed in T cells, including ETS1 and ELF1.
Here we describe the ability of these factors to interact with a site -LRB- GM5 -RRB-, located within the CLE0 element, -47 to -40 upstream of the GM-CSF transcription initiation site.
Exogenous ETS1, but not ELF1, can transactivate GM-CSF, through the GM5 site, in a PMA/ionomycin dependent manner.
Other unidentified ETS-like factors present in Jurkat cells are also capable of binding GM5.
Mutation of the core ETS binding site from - GGAA - to - GGAT - prevents the binding of ETS-like factors with the exception of ETS1.
The GM-CSF promoter, modified in this way to be ETS1 specific, is fully responsive to PMA/ionomycin induction, in addition to ETS1 transactivation in the presence of PMA and ionomycin.
Suppression of signals required for activation of transcription factor NF-kappa B in cells constitutively expressing the HTLV-I Tax protein.
Transient short-term expression of the Tax protein of human T-cell leukemia virus type-I -LRB- HTLV-I -RRB- leads to activation of the pleiotropic transcription factor NF-kappa B..
Consistent with findings obtained with transient expression assays, we observed marked accumulation of the transcription factor NF-kappa B in the nucleus of Namalwa B lymphoid cells, which constitutively express Tax.
In contrast, NF-kappa B activity was not detected in the nucleus following long-term expression of Tax in Jurkat T lymphocytes.
The ability of both mitogens and cytokines to activate NF-kappa B was also blocked in Jurkat cells constitutively expressing Tax.
However, the activation of other mitogen-inducible transcription factors, such as Fos and Jun, was unaffected.
NF-X2 that binds to the DRA X2-box is activator protein 1.
Expression cloning of c-Jun.
Human class II MHC Ag are a family of cell surface glycoproteins.
Their constitutive expression is limited to B lymphocytes and thymic epithelial cells.
In many other cells their expression can be induced by IFN-gamma.
Conserved upstream promoter sequences regulate this tissue-specific expression of class II genes.
In the DRA promoter, one of these cis-acting regulatory motifs is the X2-box to which nuclear factor X2 -LRB- NF-X2 -RRB- binds.
Here, we present the isolation and characterization of the full-length cDNA clone encoding NF-X2.
This cDNA clone was isolated by expression cDNA cloning, and encodes the human c-Jun protein, which together with c-Fos forms the heterodimeric activator protein-1 transcription complex.
Whereas c-Fos/c-Jun heterodimers do not exist in B cells, they form and bind to the X2-box in class II nonexpressing cells.
Human immunodeficiency virus type-2 gene expression : two enhancers and their activation by T-cell activators.
Since expression of the viruses is in large part regulated by the sequence elements in their long terminal repeats -LRB- LTRs -RRB-, this study was directed to an analysis of the regulatory elements in the HIV-2 LTR.
The HIV-2 LTR was found to contain two enhancers.
One of these enhancers is, in part, identical to the HIV-1 enhancer.
This enhancer in HIV-1 is the T-cell activation response element ; in HIV-2, however, it is the second enhancer that is mainly responsible for activation in response to T-cell activators.
Stimulation of the human immunodeficiency virus type 2 -LRB- HIV-2 -RRB- gene expression by the cytomegalovirus and HIV-2 transactivator gene.
Human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- often causes latent infection.
Transactivation by some DNA viruses has been implicated in inducing HIV-1 replication and pathogenesis.
The transactivator -LRB- IE-2 -RRB- gene of the human cytomegalovirus -LRB- CMV -RRB- can enhance HIV-2 as well as HIV-1 gene expression in vitro.
This inducer can act in concert with the HIV-2 tat gene and T-cell activation in enhancing gene expression in human CD4 + lymphocytes.
Both HIV-2 and CMV transactivators enhance HIV-2 gene expression by transcriptional activation involving transcript initiation as well as elongation, with CMV transactivator affecting elongation more than the initiation.
Increased IkappaB expression and diminished nuclear NF-kappaB in human mononuclear cells following hydrocortisone injection.
We have recently demonstrated that hydrocortisone and other glucocorticoids inhibit reactive oxygen species -LRB- ROS -RRB- generation by mononuclear -LRB- MNC -RRB- and polymorphonuclear leucocytes -LRB- PMNL -RRB-.
One hundred milligram of hydrocortisone was injected intravenously into 4 normal subjects.
Blood samples were obtained prior to the injection and at 1, 2, 4, 8 and 24 hr after the injection.
Nuclear extracts and total cell lysates were prepared from MNC by standard techniques.
IkappaB levels in MNC homogenates increased at 1 hr, peaked at 2-4 hr, started to decrease at 8 hr, and returned to baseline levels at 24 hr.
NF-kappaB in MNC nuclear extracts decreased at 1 hr, reached a nadir at 4 hr, gradually increased at 8 hr and returned back to baseline levels at 24 hr.
The total protein content of NF-kappaB subunit -LRB- P65 -RRB- in MNC lysates also showed a decrease following hydrocortisone injection.
This decrease was observed at 2 hr, reached a nadir at 4 hr, and returned to baseline levels at 24 hr.
ROS generation inhibition paralleled NF-kappaB levels in the nucleus.
It was inhibited at 1 hr, reached a nadir at 2-4 hr, started to increase at 8 hr, and returned to basal levels at 24 hr.
Our data demonstrate that hydrocortisone induces IkappaB and suppresses NF-kappaB expression in MNC in parallel.
IkappaB further reduces the translocation of NF-kappaB into the nucleus thus preventing the expression of proinflammatory genes.
Interferons inhibit activation of STAT6 by interleukin 4 in human monocytes by inducing SOCS-1 gene expression.
Interferons -LRB- IFNs -RRB- inhibit induction by IL-4 of multiple genes in human monocytes.
However, the mechanism by which IFNs mediate this inhibition has not been defined.
IL-4 activates gene expression by inducing tyrosine phosphorylation, homodimerization, and nuclear translocation of the latent transcription factor, STAT6 -LRB- signal transducer and activator of transcription-6 -RRB-.
STAT6-responsive elements are characteristically present in the promoters of IL-4-inducible genes.
Because STAT6 activation is essential for IL-4-induced gene expression, we examined the ability of type I and type II IFNs to regulate activation of STAT6 by IL-4 in primary human monocytes.
Pretreatment of monocytes with IFN-beta or IFN-gamma, but not IL-1, IL-2, macrophage colony-stimulating factor, granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor, IL-6, or transforming growth factor beta suppressed activation of STAT6 by IL-4.
This inhibition was associated with decreased tyrosine phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of STAT6 and was not evident unless the cells were preincubated with IFN for at least 1 hr before IL-4 stimulation.
Furthermore, inhibition by IFN could be blocked by cotreatment with actinomycin D and correlated temporally with induction of the JAK/STAT inhibitory gene, SOCS-1.
Forced expression of SOCS-1 in a macrophage cell line, RAW264, markedly suppressed trans-activation of an IL-4-inducible reporter as well as IL-6 - and IFN-gamma-induced reporter gene activity.
These findings demonstrate that IFNs inhibit IL-4-induced activation of STAT6 and STAT6-dependent gene expression, at least in part, by inducing expression of SOCS-1.
Affinity-driven peptide selection of an NFAT inhibitor more selective than cyclosporin A -LSB- see comments -RSB-.
The flow of information from calcium-mobilizing receptors to nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB- - dependent genes is critically dependent on interaction between the phosphatase calcineurin and the transcription factor NFAT.
A high-affinity calcineurin-binding peptide was selected from combinatorial peptide libraries based on the calcineurin docking motif of NFAT.
This peptide potently inhibited NFAT activation and NFAT-dependent expression of endogenous cytokine genes in T cells, without affecting the expression of other cytokines that require calcineurin but not NFAT.
Substitution of the optimized peptide sequence into the natural calcineurin docking site increased the calcineurin responsiveness of NFAT.
Renal cell carcinoma-derived gangliosides suppress nuclear factor-kappaB activation in T cells.
Activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NFkappaB -RRB- is impaired in T cells from patients with renal cell carcinomas -LRB- RCCs -RRB-.
In circulating T cells from a subset of patients with RCCs, the suppression of NFkappaB binding activity is downstream from the stimulus-induced degradation of the cytoplasmic factor IkappaBalpha.
Tumor-derived soluble products from cultured RCC explants inhibit NFkappaB activity in T cells from healthy volunteers, despite a normal level of stimulus-induced IkappaBalpha degradation in these cells.
The inhibitory agent has several features characteristic of a ganglioside, including sensitivity to neuraminidase but not protease treatment ; hydrophobicity ; and molecular weight less than 3 kDa.
Indeed, we detected gangliosides in supernatants from RCC explants and not from adjacent normal kidney tissue.
Gangliosides prepared from RCC supernatants, as well as the purified bovine gangliosides G -LRB- m1 -RRB- and G -LRB- d1a -RRB-, suppressed NFkappaB binding activity in T cells and reduced expression of the cytokines IL-2 and IFN-gamma.
Nuclear factor-kappaB-dependent induction of interleukin-8 gene expression by tumor necrosis factor alpha : evidence for an antioxidant sensitive activating pathway distinct from nuclear translocation.
Tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNFalpha -RRB- is a pluripotent activator of inflammation by inducing a proinflammatory cytokine cascade.
This phenomenon is mediated, in part, through inducible expression of the CXC chemokine, interleukin-8 -LRB- IL-8 -RRB-.
In this study, we investigate the role of TNFalpha-inducible reactive oxygen species -LRB- ROS -RRB- in IL-8 expression by `` monocyte-like '' U937 histiocytic lymphoma cells.
TNFalpha is a rapid activator of IL-8 gene expression by U937, producing a 50-fold induction of mRNA within 1 hour of treatment.
In gene transfection assays, the effect of TNFalpha requires the presence of an inducible nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- -LRB- Rel A -RRB- binding site in the IL-8 promoter.
TNFalpha treatment induces a rapid translocation of the 65 kD transcriptional activator NF-kappaB subunit, Rel A, whose binding in the nucleus occurs before changes in intracellular ROS.
Pretreatment -LRB- or up to 15 minutes posttreatment -RRB- relative to TNFalpha with the antioxidant dimethyl sulfoxide -LRB- DMSO -RRB- -LRB- 2 % -LSB- vol/vol -RSB- -RRB- blocks 80 % of NF-kappaB-dependent transcription.
Surprisingly, however, DMSO has no effect on inducible Rel A binding.
Similar selective effects on NF-kappaB transcription are seen with the unrelated antioxidants, N-acetylcysteine -LRB- NAC -RRB- and vitamin C..
Further definition of this pathway will yield new insights into inflammation initiated by TNFalpha signalling.
c-Maf induces monocytic differentiation and apoptosis in bipotent myeloid progenitors.
The transcriptional mechanisms that drive colony-forming unit granulocyte-macrophage -LRB- CFU-GM -RRB- myeloid progenitors to differentiate into cells of either the granulocytic or monocytic lineage are not fully understood.
We have shown that the c-Maf and c-Myb transcription factors physically interact in myeloid cells to form inhibitory complexes that hinder transactivation of c-Myb target genes through direct binding to Myb consensus sites.
These complexes arise in a developmentally regulated pattern, peaking at the promyelocyte stage, or in cell model systems, appearing soon after the induction of monocytic differentiation.
Because the elevated Myb : Maf status seen in differentiating cells can be recapitulated by overexpression of c-Maf in myeloid cell lines, we inducibly expressed the c-Maf cDNA in 2 bipotent human myeloid progenitor cells.
Elevated levels of c-Maf protein led to marked increases in Myb : Maf complexes and the accumulation of monocyte/macrophage cells, followed by eventual programmed cell death.
Induction of Bcl-x -LRB- L -RRB- expression by human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 Tax through NF-kappaB in apoptosis-resistant T-cell transfectants with Tax.
We have recently shown that the expression of Tax protected the mouse T-cell line CTLL-2 against apoptosis induced by interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- deprivation and converted its growth from being IL-2 dependent to being IL-2 independent.
In this study, we demonstrate that constitutive expression of bcl-xl but not bcl-2, bcl-xs, bak, bad, or bax was associated with apoptosis resistance after IL-2 deprivation in CTLL-2 cells that expressed Tax.
Transient-transfection assays showed that bcl-x promoter was transactivated by wild-type Tax.
Similar effects were observed in mutant Tax retaining transactivating ability through NF-kappaB.
This NF-kappaB-like element was able to form a complex with NF-kappaB family proteins in vitro.
Furthermore, Tax-induced transactivation of the bcl-x promoter was also diminished by the mutant IkappaBalpha, which specifically inhibits NF-kappaB activity.
Neutrophil maturation and the role of retinoic acid.
Neutrophil maturation occurs in well defined morphological stages that correlate with the acquisition of molecular markers associated with neutrophil function.
A variety of factors are known to play a role in terminal neutrophil maturation, including the vitamin A derivative, retinoic acid.
Retinoic acid can directly modulate gene expression via binding to its nuclear receptors, which can, in turn, activate transcription of target genes.
Here we present a review of the mechanism of retinoic acid receptor action and the major evidence showing that normal retinoid signaling is required for neutrophil maturation.
Dopamine stimulates expression of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 via NF-kappaB in cells of the immune system.
Recent studies have reported that lymphocytes produce, transport and bind dopamine present in plasma.
However, the action of dopamine on HIV-1 gene expression in cells of the immune system has not yet been examined.
Here, we have investigated the regulation of HIV-1 expression by dopamine in Jurkat T cells and in primary blood mononuclear cells -LRB- PBMC -RRB-.
HIV-1 replication was increased by dopamine, which correlated with the increased levels of HIV-1 transactivation.
Our transient expression data revealed that dopamine stimulated transcription through the NF-kappaB element present in the long terminal repeat.
The importance of NF-kappaB sites was confirmed by using vectors containing wild-type or mutant kappaB sites in a heterologous promoter.
Consistent with the role of NF-kappaB in mediating dopamine responsiveness, the proteasome inhibitor MG132 abolished dopamine-induced transcriptional activation.
We further explored the effect of dopamine in the presence of phorbol esters or tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- known to activate NF-kappaB.
The combination of dopamine and TNF-alpha led to a stimulation of HIV-1 transcription and replication.
These results reveal a new link between the dopamine system, cytokine signaling pathway and regulation of gene expression via the involvement of NF-kappaB in T cells and PBMC.
Signal transduction pathways triggered by the FcepsilonRIIb receptor -LRB- CD23 -RRB- in human monocytes lead to nuclear factor-kappaB activation.
BACKGROUND : Alveolar macrophages play a key role in the initiation of the inflammatory reaction of allergic asthma.
Alveolar macrophages and peripheral blood monocytes are activated when IgE/allergen immune complexes bind to the CD23 receptor, which leads to the production of inflammatory cytokines.
OBJECTIVE : We sought to investigate the molecular mechanisms regulating this early inflammatory response.
We have focused on the study of the signal transduction pathways triggered by CD23 in human monocytes and the promonocytic cell line U937.
METHODS : CD23 was cross-linked in human monocytes and U937 cells with IgE immune complexes.
Surface expression of CD23 was determined by FACS analysis.
Transcription factor activation and gene transcription were studied by gel-shift assays and Northern blot analysis, respectively.
IkappaBalpha phosphorylation and degradation was analyzed by Western blot.
RESULTS : Nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappaB is the main transcription factor involved in the gene activation that follows CD23 cross-linking in monocytes.
CD23-induced NF-kappaB is a heterodimer composed of p65/p50 subunits.
NF-kappaB nuclear translocation is secondary to the phosphorylation and subsequent degradation of the NF-kappaB inhibitory molecule IkappaBalpha.
Tyrosine kinase-dependent, and not protein kinase C-dependent, pathways mediate CD23-triggered NF-kappaB activation but do not participate in the direct phosphorylation of IkappaBalpha.
IkappaBalpha degradation and NF-kappaB nuclear translocation correlate with transcriptional activation of the inflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha and IL-1beta.
CONCLUSIONS : NF-kappaB is the main transcription factor involved in the signal transduction pathway of CD23 in monocytes.
AML1 -LRB- CBFalpha2 -RRB- cooperates with B cell-specific activating protein -LRB- BSAP/PAX5 -RRB- in activation of the B cell-specific BLK gene promoter.
AML1 plays a critical role during hematopoiesis and chromosomal translocations involving AML1 are commonly associated with different forms of leukemia, including pre-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
Gel mobility shift assays and transient transfection assays demonstrate that AML1 binds specifically to this site in the blk promoter and this binding site is important for blk promoter activity.
Furthermore, in vitro binding analysis revealed that the AML1 runt DNA-binding domain physically interacts with the paired DNA-binding domain of BSAP, a B cell-specific transcription factor.
BSAP has been shown previously to be important for B cell-specific regulation of the blk gene.
Physical interaction of AML1 with BSAP correlates with functional cooperativity in transfection studies where AML1 and BSAP synergistically activate blk promoter transcription by more than 50-fold.
Differential effects of lipopolysaccharide and tumor necrosis factor on monocytic IkappaB kinase signalsome activation and IkappaB proteolysis.
The inflammatory mediators lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- and tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- are potent activators of NF-kappaB.
This study compared the effect of these stimuli on endogenous IkappaB kinase -LRB- IKK -RRB- signalsome activation and IkappaB phosphorylation/proteolysis in human monocytic cells and investigated the role of the signalsome proteins IKK-alpha, IKK-beta, NF-kappaB-inducing kinase -LRB- NIK -RRB-, IKK-gamma -LRB- NF-kappaB essential modulator -RRB-, and IKK complex-associated protein.
Kinase assays showed that TNF elicited a rapid but short-lived induction of IKK activity with a 3-fold greater effect on IKK-alpha than on IKK-beta, peaking at 5 min.
In contrast, LPS predominantly stimulated IKK-beta activity, which slowly increased, peaking at 30 min.
A second peak was observed at a later time point following LPS stimulation, which consisted of both IKK-alpha and - beta activity.
The endogenous levels of the signalsome components were unaffected by stimulation.
Furthermore, our studies showed association of the IKK-alpha/beta heterodimer with NIK, IkappaB-alpha and - epsilon in unstimulated cells.
Exposure to LPS or TNF led to differential patterns of IkappaB-alpha and IkappaB-epsilon disappearance from and reassembly with the signalsome, whereas IKK-alpha, IKK-beta, and NIK remained complex-associated.
Overexpression of IKK complex-associated protein inhibited stimulus-mediated transcription, whereas NF-kappaB essential modulator enhanced it.
Two distinct signal transmission pathways in T lymphocytes are inhibited by complexes formed between an immunophilin and either FK506 or rapamycin.
Proliferation and immunologic function of T lymphocytes are initiated by signals from the antigen receptor that are inhibited by the immunosuppressant FK506 but not by its structural analog, rapamycin.
On the other hand, interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- - induced signals are blocked by rapamycin but not by FK506.
We find that the dissociation constant of rapamycin to the FK506 binding protein FKBP -LRB- Kd = 0.2 nM -RRB- is close to the dissociation constant of FK506 to FKBP -LRB- Kd = 0.4 nM -RRB- and to their effective biologic inhibitory concentrations.
However, an excess of rapamycin is needed to revert FK506-mediated inhibition of IL-2 production, apoptosis, and transcriptional activation of NF-AT, a T-cell-specific transcription factor necessary for IL-2 gene activation.
Similarly, an excess of FK506 is needed to revert rapamycin-mediated inhibition of IL-2-induced proliferation.
FKBP has been shown to catalyze the interconversion of the cis - and trans-rotamers of the peptidyl-prolyl amide bond of peptide substrates ; here we show that rapamycin, like FK506, is a potent inhibitor of the rotamase activity of FKBP -LRB- Ki = 0.2 nM -RRB-.
Neither FKBP binding nor inhibition of rotamase activity of FKBP alone is sufficient to explain the biologic actions of these drugs.
Transcriptional down-regulation of c-myc expression by protein synthesis-dependent and - independent pathways in a human T lymphoblastic tumor cell line.
We show that in the human T lymphoblastic tumor cell line Molt4 c-myc mRNA and protein expression is down-regulated after exposure to dimethyl sulfoxide, to phorbol myristate acetate, or to the calcium ionophore A23187, which raises the intracellular calcium concentration.
A block to RNA elongation is largely responsible for decreased c-myc transcription.
Although negative regulation by dimethyl sulfoxide takes place even when protein synthesis is inhibited by cycloheximide, the phorbol myristate acetate effect is blocked to some extent only by cycloheximide.
The calcium ionophore-induced c-myc suppression, however, strictly requires de novo protein synthesis.
Therefore, two different negative regulatory pathways are involved in c-myc regulation : one which is independent and one which depends on de novo protein synthesis.
Induction of immediate early response genes by macrophage colony-stimulating factor in normal human monocytes.
A group of coordinately induced protooncogenes, cytoskeletal, and extracellular matrix genes have been termed immediate early response genes, and their induction has been associated with growth factor-stimulated cell proliferation.
We have investigated the induction of these genes by macrophage-CSF -LRB- M-CSF -RRB- in human monocytes that do not proliferate in response to M-CSF but require the factor for optimal cell differentiation.
Normal human monocytes were isolated, carefully washed, and incubated for 36 to 48 h in fetal bovine serum-containing medium.
At the end of this incubation the resting cells were stimulated with M-CSF, and RNA was isolated for analysis by Northern blotting.
RNA from control resting cells contained low to undetectable levels of c-jun, fibronectin receptor, and actin mRNA.
Within 15 to 30 min of addition of M-CSF, however, there was a dramatic coordinate induction of these genes.
The c-jun gene expression was very transient and was not detectable by 60 min after M-CSF addition.
In contrast, the expression of actin and fibronectin receptor mRNA was more sustained, and the expression of these genes remained elevated at 24 to 48 h after M-CSF addition.
We also observed the induction of the myelomonocytic specific tyrosine kinase hck gene simultaneously with the other immediate early response genes.
The protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide did not block the induction of any of these genes, and in fact, super-induced the expression of c-jun and hck.
Nuclear run on transcription of the c-jun, hck, and actin genes.
Therefore, in normal human monocytes M-CSF induces immediate early response genes without inducing cell proliferation.
Stimulation of a human T-cell clone with anti-CD3 or tumor necrosis factor induces NF-kappa B translocation but not human immunodeficiency virus 1 enhancer-dependent transcription.
The expression of transiently transfected expression vectors under the control of the long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- of the human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- or its enhancer sequence and the translocation of the HIV enhancer-binding protein NF-kappa B were analyzed in two human T-cell clones stimulated through their T-cell receptor complex or by tumor necrosis factor or phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate.
We found a dissociation of NF-kappa B translocation from transactivation of either the HIV LTR or the HIV enhancer.
Interleukin 2 induced proliferation but not NF-kappa B translocation or LTR transactivation.
Phorbol ester or specific antigen recognition induced HIV LTR transactivation, whereas stimulation with tumor necrosis factor or antibody to CD3 did not.
The two latter signals were nevertheless able to induce NF-kappa B translocation with a pattern in the band-shift assay indistinguishable from that observed using phorbol ester.
Tandem AP-1-binding sites within the human beta-globin dominant control region function as an inducible enhancer in erythroid cells.
A powerful enhancer has been mapped to an 18-bp DNA segment located 11 kb 5' to the human epsilon-globin gene within the dominant control or locus-activating region.
This enhancer is inducible in K562 human erythroleukemia cells, increasing linked gamma-globin promoter/luciferase gene expression to 170-fold over an enhancerless construct.
The enhancer consists of tandem AP-1-binding sites, phased 10 bp apart, which are both required for full activity.
DNA-protein binding assays with nuclear extracts from induced cells demonstrate a high molecular weight complex on the enhancer.
The formation of this complex also requires both AP-1 sites and correlates with maximal enhancer activity.
Adherence-dependent increase in human monocyte PDGF -LRB- B -RRB- mRNA is associated with increases in c-fos, c-jun, and EGR2 mRNA.
Adherence is an important initial step in the transition of a circulating monocyte to a tissue macrophage.
This differentiation is accompanied by an augmented capacity to generate growth factors.
After in vitro adherence, human monocytes had a biphasic increase in PDGF -LRB- B -RRB- mRNA with peaks at 6 h and 13 d..
No increase in TGF-beta mRNA was observed.
The 6-h increase in PDGF -LRB- B -RRB- mRNA was adherence dependent, and in addition, was abrogated when the cytoskeletal integrity was compromised by cytochalasin D..
The 6-h increase in PDGF -LRB- B -RRB- mRNA was unaltered by adherence in the presence of the monocyte stimulus lipopolysaccharide.
Adherence to either fibronectin or collagen-coated plastic had little consistent effect on PDGF -LRB- B -RRB- mRNA accumulation.
The increased PDGF -LRB- B -RRB- mRNA observed in adherent monocytes was accompanied by increases in mRNAs of the early growth response genes c-fos -LRB- maximal at 20 min -RRB-, c-jun, and EGR2 -LRB- maximal at 6-24 h -RRB-.
The increase in c-jun and EGR2, but not c-fos, mRNA was also abrogated by cytochalasin D..
Interferon-gamma and the sexual dimorphism of autoimmunity.
The sexual difference in the incidence of autoimmune diseases has remained an enigma for many years.
In the examination of the induction of autoimmunity in transgenic mice, evidence has been obtained further implicating the lymphokine interferon-gamma in the etiology of autoimmunity.
Single cell assay of a transcription factor reveals a threshold in transcription activated by signals emanating from the T-cell antigen receptor.
Stimulation of T lymphocytes through their antigen receptor leads to the appearance of several transcription factors, including NF-AT and NF-kappa B, which are involved in regulating genes required for immunologic activation.
To investigate the activity of a single transcription factor in individual viable cells, we have applied an assay that uses the fluorescence-activated cell sorter to quantitate beta-galactosidase -LRB- beta-gal -RRB-.
We have analyzed the distribution of NF-AT transcriptional activity among T cells undergoing activation by using a construct in which three tandem copies of the NF-AT-binding site directs transcription of the lacZ gene.
Unexpectedly, stimulation of cloned stably transfected Jurkat T cells leads to a bimodal pattern of beta-gal expression in which some cells express no beta-gal and others express high levels.
This expression pattern can not be accounted for by cell-cycle position or heritable variation.
Transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of c-jun expression during monocytic differentiation of human myeloid leukemic cells.
AP-1, the polypeptide product of c-jun, recognizes and binds to specific DNA sequences and stimulates transcription of genes responsive to certain growth factors and phorbol esters such as 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB-.
We studied the effects of TPA on the regulation of c-jun gene expression in HL-60 cells during monocytic differentiation.
Low levels of c-jun transcripts were detectable in untreated HL-60 leukemic cells, increased significantly by 6 h, and reached near maximal levels by 24 h of exposure to 32 nM TPA.
Similar kinetics of c-jun induction by TPA were observed in human U-937 and THP-1 monocytic leukemia cells.
Similar findings were obtained with bryostatin 1 -LRB- 10 nM -RRB-, another activator of protein kinase C and inducer of monocytic differentiation.
Furthermore, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 -LRB- 0.5 microM -RRB-, a structurally distinct agent which also induces HL-60 monocytic differentiation, increased c-jun expression.
TPA treatment of HL-60 cells in the presence of cycloheximide was associated with superinduction of c-jun transcripts.
Run-on analysis demonstrated detectable levels of c-jun gene transcription in untreated HL-60 cells, and that exposure to TPA increases this rate 3.3-fold.
Treatment of HL-60 cells with both TPA and cycloheximide had no effect on the rates of c-jun transcription.
The half-life of c-jun RNA as determined by treating HL-60 cells with TPA and actinomycin D was 30 min.
In contrast, the half-life of c-jun RNA in TPA-treated HL-60 cells exposed to cycloheximide and actinomycin D was greater than 2 h..
Identification of a novel factor that interacts with an immunoglobulin heavy-chain promoter and stimulates transcription in conjunction with the lymphoid cell-specific factor OTF2.
The tissue-specific expression of the MOPC 141 immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene was studied by using in vitro transcription.
B-cell-specific transcription of this gene was dependent on the octamer element 5' - ATGCAAAG-3', located in the upstream region of this promoter and in the promoters of all other immunoglobulin heavy - and light-chain genes.
The interaction of purified octamer transcription factors 1 and 2 -LRB- OTF1 and OTF2 -RRB- with the MOPC 141 promoter was studied by using electrophoretic mobility shift assays and DNase I footprinting.
Purified OTF1 from HeLa cells and OTF1 and OTF2 from B cells bound to identical sequences within the heavy-chain promoter.
In addition to these elements, we identified a second regulatory element, the N element with the sequence 5' - GGAACCTCCCCC-3'.
The N element could independently mediate low levels of transcription in both B-cell and HeLa-cell extracts, and, in conjunction with the octamer element, it can promote high levels of transcription in B-cell extracts.
The N element bound a transcription factor, NTF, that is ubiquitous in cell-type distribution, and NTF was distinct from any of the previously described proteins that bind to similar sequences.
Involvement of a second lymphoid-specific enhancer element in the regulation of immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene expression.
We demonstrate that the NF-microB-binding site plays a critical role in the IgH enhancer, because mutation of the microB DNA motif decreased transcriptional activity of the IgH enhancer in cells of the B-cell lineage but not in nonlymphoid cells.
This effect was comparable to or even stronger than the effect of a mutation in the OCTA site.
Moreover, combined mutation of both microB and OCTA sites further reduced enhancer activity in lymphoid cells.
Interestingly, alteration of either the microB or E3 site in a 70-base-pair fragment of the IgH enhancer that lacks the binding site for OCTA abolished enhancer activity in lymphoid cells completely.
Nevertheless, a multimer of the microB motif alone showed no enhancer activity.
DNase footprinting analysis corroborated the functional data showing that a lymphoid-specific protein binds to the microB DNA motif.
The expression of c-fos, c-jun, and c-myc genes is regulated by heat shock in human lymphoid cells.
The effect of heat shock on the expression of the nuclear protooncogenes c-fos, c-jun, and c-myc was studied in human lymphoid cells.
Heat shock caused an increase in c-fos and c-jun mRNA levels and a decrease in c-myc mRNA levels in pre-B -LRB- Hyon -RRB- and T -LRB- DND-41 -RRB- cell lines as well as in freshly isolated normal human thymocytes.
The changes in the mRNA levels of these protooncogenes in Hyon cells were most pronounced at 42 and 43 degrees C ; kinetic analysis demonstrated that the changes could be detected within 30 min of heat shock.
Altered transcription of c-fos and c-myc genes was the primary effect of heat shock.
Secondarily, heat shock of Hyon cells stabilized the c-myc mRNA level by increasing its half-life from 24 to 45 min.
The overall effect of heat shock on c-myc mRNA level, however, was a marked inhibition of its transcription.
Purification of TCF-1 alpha, a T-cell-specific transcription factor that activates the T-cell receptor C alpha gene enhancer in a context-dependent manner.
The differentiation of T cells into functionally diverse subpopulations is controlled in part, by transcriptional activation and silencing ; however, little is known in detail about the proteins that influence this developmental process.
We have purified a new T-cell-specific factor, TCF-1 alpha, that is implicated in the activation of genes encoding a major component of the human T-cell receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB-.
TCF-1 alpha, originally identified and purified through its binding sites on the HIV-1 promoter, was found to bind to the TCR alpha enhancer and to promoters for several genes expressed at significantly earlier stages of T-cell development than the TCR alpha gene -LRB- e.g., p56lck and CD3 delta -RRB-.
Southwestern and gel renaturation experiments with the use of purified protein fractions revealed that TCF-1 alpha activity is derived from a family of 57 - to 53-kD proteins that are abundantly expressed in mature and immature T-cell lines -LRB- Jurkat, CCRF-CEM -RRB- and not in mature B cells -LRB- JY, Namalwa -RRB- or nonlymphoid -LRB- HeLa -RRB- cell lines.
Tandem copies of this enhancer functioned synergistically in mature -LRB- Jurkat -RRB- T-cell lines as well as resting and activated immature -LRB- CCRF-CEM -RRB- T-cell lines.
Mutation of the TCF-1 alpha binding site diminished enhancer activity and disrupted the synergism observed in vivo between tandem enhancer repeats.
The TCF-1 alpha binding site was also required for TCR alpha enhancer activity in transcriptionally active extracts from Jurkat but not HeLa cells, confirming that TCF-1 alpha is a T-cell-specific transcription factor.
Curiously, the TCF-1 alpha binding element was inactive in vivo when removed from its neighboring elements on the TCR alpha enhancer and positioned in one or more copies upstream of a heterologous promoter.
A novel T-cell trans-activator that recognizes a phorbol ester-inducible element of the interleukin-2 promoter.
The interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- gene promoter is recognized by several cell-type-specific and ubiquitous transcriptional regulators that integrate information transmitted by various signaling systems leading to IL-2 production and T-cell activation.
Using a combination of transfection, protein-DNA binding, and in vitro transcription methods, we have discovered the novel T-cell-specific transcriptional activator TCF-1 -LRB- for T-Cell Factor-1 -RRB-, which recognizes a T-cell-specific response element -LRB- TCE -RRB- located within the IL-2 promoter.
However, like NF kappa B, TCF-1 activity is induced by phorbol esters and other T-cell activators.
Two distinct transcription factors that bind the immunoglobulin enhancer microE5/kappa 2 motif.
Activity of the immunoglobulin heavy and kappa light chain gene enhancers depends on a complex interplay of ubiquitous and developmentally regulated proteins.
Two complementary DNAs were isolated that encode proteins, denoted ITF-1 and ITF-2, that are expressed in a variety of cell types and bind the microE5/kappa 2 motif found in both heavy and kappa light chain enhancers.
The complementary DNAs are the products of distinct genes, yet both ITF-1 and ITF-2 are structurally and functionally similar.
The two proteins interact with one another through their putative helix-loop-helix motifs and each possesses a distinct domain that dictates transcription activation.
A factor known to bind to endogenous Ig heavy chain enhancer only in lymphocytes is a ubiquitously active transcription factor.
The transcriptional enhancer located in the first intron of the immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region is a major determinant of B-cell-specific expression of immunoglobulin genes.
Like other enhancers, the Ig heavy chain enhancer contains several short sequence motifs that bind specific transcription factors.
For a better understanding of the Ig heavy chain enhancer components, we have cloned and analyzed individual sequence elements.
We find that the factor that binds to the E3 enhancer motif, CATGTGGC, is a ubiquitous transcription factor.
It is present in an active form in both B cells and non-B cells, where it can mediate transcriptional activation in vitro and in vivo.
From this and other findings the picture emerges that there are at least three categories of factors which mediate cell-type-specific transcription in B lymphocytes : -LRB- a -RRB- cell-specific factors such as Oct-2A and Oct-2B that are not expressed in most other cell types : -LRB- b -RRB- ubiquitous factors such as NF-kappa B that are constitutively active in B cells but are sequestered in an inactive form in other cells ; -LRB- c -RRB- ubiquitously active factors, exemplified by the one binding to the E3 sequence motif.
Multiple signals are required for function of the human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor gene promoter in T cells.
The human granulocyte-macrophage CSF -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB- gene is expressed in T cells in response to TCR activation that can be mimicked by treatment of the cells with PMA and Ca2 + ionophore.
The gene contains a proximal functional promoter region -LRB- -620 to +34 -RRB-, as well as a powerful enhancer located 3 kb upstream, both of which are involved in the response of the gene to TCR activation.
The proximal promoter contains a region termed CLEO -LRB- -54 to -31 -RRB- that consists of a purine-rich element abutting an activator protein-1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB- - like site, as well as an upstream nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- site -LRB- -85 to -76 -RRB- and a CK-1 element -LRB- -101 to -92 -RRB-.
We show in this work that mutations in either the purine-rich region of the CLEO element or the NF-kappa B site result in reduced PMA/Ca2 + activation of a 620-bp human GM-CSF promoter-luciferase reporter construct in Jurkat T cells by 65 % and 50 %, respectively.
The major inducible protein complex that binds to the human CLEO -LRB- hCLEO -RRB- element is an AP-1-like complex that is inducible by PMA alone, but shows increased binding in response to PMA together with Ca2 + ionophore.
Although the binding of this complex is not cyclosporin-sensitive, promoter induction is inhibited by cyclosporin treatment.
A second weak inducible complex resembling nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NF-AT -RRB- was also observed binding to the hCLEO region.
By using recombinant proteins, we confirmed that AP-1, NF-ATp, and a higher order NF-ATp/AP -1 complex could all form with the hCLEO element, and we have also defined the sequence requirements for binding of each of these complexes.
We found that expression of a constitutively active form of calcineurin could substitute for Ca2 + ionophore and synergize with PMA to activate the GM-CSF promoter, and conversely that mutant-activated Ras could substitute for PMA and cooperate with Ca2 + ionophore.
Co-expression of Ras and calcineurin, however, did not activate the GM-CSF promoter, but required the additional expression of NF-kappa B p65.
Interleukin 4 activates a signal transducer and activator of transcription -LRB- Stat -RRB- protein which interacts with an interferon-gamma activation site-like sequence upstream of the I epsilon exon in a human B cell line.
Evidence for the involvement of Janus kinase 3 and interleukin-4 Stat.
Germ line C transcripts can be induced by IL-4 in the human B cell line, BL-2.
Utilizing a IFN-gamma activation site-like DNA sequence element located upstream of the I epsilon exon, we demonstrated by gel mobility shift assays that IL-4 induced a binding activity in the cytosol and nucleus of BL-2 cells.
This factor was designated IL-4 NAF -LRB- IL-4-induced nuclear-activating factors -RRB- and was identified as a tyrosine phosphoprotein, which translocates from the cytosol to the nucleus upon IL-4 treatment.
Congruous with the involvement of a Stat protein, IL-4 induced robust Janus kinase 3 -LRB- JAK3 -RRB- activity in BL-2 cells.
Cotransfection of JAK3 with IL-4 Stat into COS-7 cells produced an intracellular activity which bound the same IFN-gamma activation site-like sequence and comigrated with IL-4 NAF in electrophoretic mobility shift assay.
These results show that IL-4 NAF is IL-4 Stat, which is activated by JAK3 in response to IL-4 receptor engagement.
Functional roles of the transcription factor Oct-2A and the high mobility group protein I/Y in HLA-DRA gene expression.
The class II major histocompatibility complex gene HLA-DRA is expressed in B cells, activated T lymphocytes, and in antigen-presenting cells.
In addition, HLA-DRA gene expression is inducible in a variety of cell types by interferon-gamma -LRB- IFN-gamma -RRB-.
Here we show that the lymphoid-specific transcription factor Oct-2A plays a critical role in HLA-DRA gene expression in class II-positive B cell lines, and that the high mobility group protein -LRB- HMG -RRB- I/Y binds to multiple sites within the DRA promoter, including the Oct-2A binding site.
Coexpression of HMG I/Y and Oct-2 in cell lines lacking Oct-2 results in high levels of HLA-DRA gene expression, and in vitro DNA-binding studies reveal that HMG I/Y stimulates Oct-2A binding to the HLA-DRA promoter.
By contrast, Oct-2A is not involved in the IFN-gamma induction of the HLA-DRA gene in HeLa cells, but antisense HMG I/Y dramatically decreases the level of induction.
Activation of NF-kappa B by phosphatase inhibitors involves the phosphorylation of I kappa B alpha at phosphatase 2A-sensitive sites.
In the present study, the role of serine/threonine phosphatases in the regulation of I kappa B alpha phosphorylation was investigated.
Our studies demonstrate that incubation of human T cells with low concentrations -LRB- approximately 1-5 nM -RRB- of calyculin A or okadaic acid, potent inhibitors of protein phosphatase type 1 -LRB- PP-1 -RRB- and type 2A -LRB- PP-2A -RRB-, induces the phosphorylation of I kappa B alpha even in the absence of any cellular stimulus.
This action of the phosphatase inhibitors, which is associated with the activation of the RelA.p50 NF-kappa B heterodimer, is not affected by agents that block the induction of I kappa B alpha phosphorylation by tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB-.
However, induction of I kappa B alpha phosphorylation by both TNF-alpha and the phosphatase inhibitors is associated with the subsequent degradation of I kappa B alpha.
We further demonstrate that TNF-alpha - and calyculin A-induced I kappa B alpha degradation exhibits similar but not identical sensitivities to a proteasome inhibitor.
IL-2 gene expression and NF-kappa B activation through CD28 requires reactive oxygen production by 5-lipoxygenase.
Activation of the CD28 surface receptor provides a major costimulatory signal for T cell activation resulting in enhanced production of interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- and cell proliferation.
In primary T lymphocytes we show that CD28 ligation leads to the rapid intracellular formation of reactive oxygen intermediates -LRB- ROIs -RRB- which are required for CD28-mediated activation of the NF-kappa B/CD28-responsive complex and IL-2 expression.
Delineation of the CD28 signaling cascade was found to involve protein tyrosine kinase activity, followed by the activation of phospholipase A2 and 5-lipoxygenase.
Characterization of 5' end of human thromboxane receptor gene.
Organizational analysis and mapping of protein kinase C -- responsive elements regulating expression in platelets.
Platelet thromboxane receptors are acutely and reversibly upregulated after acute myocardial infarction.
The exon-intron structure of the 5' portion of the thromboxane receptor gene was determined initially by comparing the nucleotide sequence of the 5' flanking genomic clone with that of a novel human uterine thromboxane receptor cDNA that extended the mRNA 141 bp further upstream than the previously identified human placental cDNA.
A major transcription initiation site was located in three human tissues approximately 560 bp upstream from the translation initiation codon and 380 bp upstream from any previously identified transcription initiation site.
The thromboxane receptor gene has neither a TATA nor a CAAT consensus site.
Promoter function of the 5' flanking region of the thromboxane receptor gene was evaluated by transfection of thromboxane receptor gene promoter/chloramphenicol acetyltransferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- chimera plasmids into platelet-like K562 cells.
Thromboxane receptor promoter activity, as assessed by CAT expression, was relatively weak but was significantly enhanced by phorbol ester treatment.
Functional analysis of 5' deletion constructs in transfected K562 cells and gel mobility shift localized the major phorbol ester-responsive motifs in the thromboxane receptor gene promoter to a cluster of activator protein-2 -LRB- AP-2 -RRB- binding consensus sites located approximately 1.8 kb 5' from the transcription initiation site.
These studies are the first to determine the structure and organization of the 5' end of the thromboxane receptor gene and demonstrate that thromboxane receptor gene expression can be regulated by activation of protein kinase C via induction of an AP-2-like nuclear factor binding to upstream promoter elements.
Regulation of c-jun mRNA expression by hydroxyurea in human K562 cells during erythroid differentiation -LSB- published erratum appears in Biochim Biophys Acta 1995 Dec 27 ; 1264 -LRB- 3 -RRB- :409 -RSB-.
Hydroxyurea -LRB- HU -RRB- is an antitumor agent which also induces hemoglobinization during erythroid differentiation.
In addition, HU stimulates the synthesis of fetal hemoglobin in sickle cell anemia patients.
To further understand its mechanism of action, we investigated the effects of HU on regulation of c-jun expression prior to the onset of erythroid differentiation of K562 cells.
HU induced a dose-dependent stimulation of c-jun synthesis.
The levels of c-jun mRNA was elevated 4 to 7.5-fold by HU within 2 h..
This was followed by a gradual decline to the basal level by 24 h..
In addition, the level of jun protein was elevated by 2 to 5-fold within 4 h in HU treated cells.
Furthermore, concentrations of HU below 250 microM slightly increased the 5X AP-1 / CAT activity.
An IRF-1-dependent pathway of DNA damage-induced apoptosis in mitogen-activated T lymphocytes.
Here we show DNA damage-induced apoptosis in these T lymphocytes is dependent on the antioncogenic transcription factor interferon regulatory factor -LRB- IRF -RRB- -1.
Thus two different anti-onco-genic transcription factors, p53 and IRF-1, are required for distinct apoptotic pathways in T lymphocytes.
We also show that mitogen induction of the interleukin-1 beta converting enzyme -LRB- ICE -RRB- gene, a mammalian homologue of the Caenorhabditis elegans cell death gene ced-3, is IRF-1-dependent.
Ectopic overexpression of IRF-1 results in the activation of the endogenous gene for ICE and enhances the sensitivity of cells to radiation-induced apoptosis.
Nuclear factor-IL6 activates the human IL-4 promoter in T cells.
Positive regulatory element I -LRB- PRE-I -RRB- is a strong enhancer element essential for expression of the human IL-4 gene.
To identify transcription factors binding to PRE-I, we screened a cDNA expression library from Jurkat T cells and isolated a cDNA encoding nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - IL6 -LRB- also known as C/EBP beta -RRB-.
NF-IL6 mRNA was found in human Jurkat T cells and in the mouse Th2 clone D10, but not in Th1 clone 29.
rNF-IL6 expressed in bacteria was shown to specifically bind to PRE-I.
PRE-I forms multiple DNA-protein complexes with nuclear extracts from Jurkat cells.
Some of these complexes were demonstrated to contain NF-IL6 by using anti-C/EBP beta Abs.
Overexpression of NF-IL6 enhanced expression of the chloramphenicol acetyl transferase reporter gene linked to the PRE-I-thymidine kinase or the human IL-4 promoter more than 10-fold in Jurkat cells.
Promoter deletion studies revealed two additional NF-IL6 binding sites located at positions -44 to -36 -LRB- C/EBP proximal -RRB- and -87 to -79 -LRB- C/EBP medial -RRB-, respectively.
Our results demonstrate that NF-IL6 is involved in transcriptional activation of the human IL-4 promoter in T cells.
Triggering of complement receptors CR1 -LRB- CD35 -RRB- and CR3 -LRB- CD11b/CD18 -RRB- induces nuclear translocation of NF-kappa B -LRB- p50/p65 -RRB- in human monocytes and enhances viral replication in HIV-infected monocytic cells.
The effect of LPS and TNF-alpha is mediated by their ability to induce nuclear translocation of the DNA-binding heterodimer NF-kappa B -LRB- p50/p65 -RRB-, which binds to a specific sequence in the HIV-long terminal repeat.
The present study demonstrates that triggering of complement receptors CR1 -LRB- CD35 -RRB- and CR3 -LRB- CD11b/CD18 -RRB- enhances viral replication in HIV-infected human monocytic cells.
Monocytic cell lines and normal peripheral blood monocytes were infected with HIV-1 in vitro and cultured in the presence or absence of F -LRB- ab' -RRB- 2 fragments of monoclonal anti-CR1 or anti-CR3 Abs or with C3 fragments.
Stimulation of CR1 or CR3 induces a two - to fourfold increase in the amount of cell-associated and released p24 Ag in cell cultures that was equivalent to that observed in control cultures triggered with LPS.
We further observed that stimulation of CR1 or CR3 induces the nuclear translocation of NF-kappa B p50/p65 in infected cells.
Translocation of NF-kappa B p50/p65 was also observed following stimulation of CR1 or CR3 of uninfected peripheral blood monocytes from HIV-seronegative donors.
The amount of protein translocated was similar to that observed when cells were stimulated with rhTNF-alpha.
TNF-alpha did not mediate the translocation of NF-kappa B p50/p65 induced by triggering of complement receptors.
Regulation of IkB alpha phosphorylation by PKC - and Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - dependent signal transduction pathways.
The Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - dependent phosphatase calcineurin, a target of FK506 and CsA, synergizes with PKC-induced activation of nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappa B in T cell lines.
While this synergy is present in other cell types, in the monocytic cell line U937 calcineurin is also sufficient to activate NF-kappa B..
Having previously shown that Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - and PKC-dependent pathways synergize by accelerating the degradation of IkB alpha, we focused on the regulation of IkB alpha phosphorylation.
While PKC-dependent pathways sequentially result in the phosphorylation and in an incomplete degradation of IkB alpha in T cell lines, co-activation of Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - dependent pathways accelerates the rate of IkB alpha phosphorylation and results in its complete degradation.
Activation of Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - dependent pathways alone do not result in the phosphorylation and/or degradation of IkB alpha in Jurkat T or in U937 cells.
Treatment of T cells with the selective PKC inhibitor GF109203X abrogates the PMA-induced IkB alpha phosphorylation/degradation irrespective of activation of Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - dependent pathways, but not the phosphorylation and degradation of IkB alpha induced by TNF-alpha, a PKC-independent stimulus.
Contrary to the interaction with PKC, Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - dependent pathways synergize with TNF-alpha not at the level of IkB alpha phosphorylation, but at the level of its degradation.
Activation of the signal transducer and transcription -LRB- STAT -RRB- signaling pathway in a primary T cell response.
Critical role for IL-6.
The T cell activation is initiated by interaction of specific Ags with TCR, followed by activation of intracellular biochemical events leading to activation of several genes.
The activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription -LRB- STAT -RRB- proteins in a primary TCR-mediated activation of T cells have been explored.
In purified human peripheral blood T cells, nuclear STAT proteins were activated approximately 3 h after activation by cross-linked anti-CD3 Abs.
These STAT proteins were detected by using the IFN-gamma-activated sequence -LRB- GAS -RRB- and related oligonucleotides as probes in electrophoretic mobility shift assay.
As neutralizing anti-IL-6 Abs effectively down-regulated the early induction of STAT proteins and as exogenously added IL-6 rapidly activated DNA binding similar to TCR-mediated bindings, it can be concluded that IL-6 is the factor responsible for the activation of STAT proteins in a primary T cell response.
A functional T-cell receptor signaling pathway is required for p95vav activity.
Stimulation of the T-cell antigen receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- induces activation of multiple tyrosine kinases, resulting in phosphorylation of numerous intracellular substrates.
One substrate is p95vav, which is expressed exclusively in hematopoietic and trophoblast cells.
It contains a number of structural motifs, including Src homology 2, Src homology 3, and pleckstrin homology domains and a putative guanine nucleotide exchange domain.
Here, we show that overexpression of p95vav alone in Jurkat T cells leads to activation of the nuclear factors, including NFAT, involved in interleukin-2 expression.
Furthermore, p95vav synergizes with TCR stimulation in inducing NFAT - and interleukin-2-dependent transcription.
We further demonstrate that the p95vav-induced NFAT activation is not mimicked by Ras activation, though its function is dependent upon Ras and Raf.
To further dissect p95vav involvement in TCR signaling, we analyzed various Jurkat mutants deficient in TCR signaling function or TCR expression and showed that an intact TCR signaling pathway is required for p95vav to function.
Thapsigargin induces IL-2 receptor alpha-chain in human peripheral and Jurkat T cells via a protein kinase C-independent mechanism.
Thapsigargin -LRB- TG -RRB-, an inhibitor of Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - ATPase, depletes intracellular Ca2 + stores and induces a sustained Ca2 + influx without altering phosphatidyl inositol levels.
However, TG induced increases in IL-2R alpha protein as well as IL-2R alpha mRNA in Jurkat T cells in a dose-dependent manner.
A similar increase in IL-2R alpha by TG was also observed in human peripheral T cells.
Further, like PMA, TG markedly induced NF kappa B in Jurkat T cells.
PMA - but not TG-induced IL-2R alpha is inhibited by the PKC inhibitor H7, whereas TG - but not PMA-induced IL-2R alpha was inhibited by cholera toxin, forskolin and 1,9-dideoxy forskolin.
The peri-kappa B site mediates human immunodeficiency virus type 2 enhancer activation in monocytes but not in T cells.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 2 -LRB- HIV-2 -RRB-, like HIV-1, causes AIDS and is associated with AIDS cases primarily in West Africa.
HIV-1 and HIV-2 display significant differences in nucleic acid sequence and in the natural history of clinical disease.
Consistent with these differences, we have previously demonstrated that the enhancer/promoter region of HIV-2 functions quite differently from that of HIV-1.
Whereas activation of the HIV-1 enhancer following T-cell stimulation is mediated largely through binding of the transcription factor NF-kappa B to two adjacent kappa B sites in the HIV-1 long terminal repeat, activation of the HIV-2 enhancer in monocytes and T cells is dependent on four cis-acting elements : a single kappa B site, two purine-rich binding sites, PuB1 and PuB2, and a pets site.
We have now identified a novel cis-acting element within the HIV-2 enhancer, immediately upstream of the kappa B site, designated peri-kappa B..
This site is conserved among isolates of HIV-2 and the closely related simian immunodeficiency virus, and transfection assays show this site to mediate HIV-2 enhancer activation following stimulation of monocytic but not T-cell lines.
This is the first description of an HIV-2 enhancer element which displays such monocyte specificity, and no comparable enhancer element has been clearly defined for HIV-1.
Further, while specific constitutive binding to the peri-kappa B site is seen in monocytes, stimulation with phorbol esters induces additional, specific binding.
Positive and negative regulation of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor promoter activity by AML1-related transcription factor, PEBP2.
The granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB- gene promoter contains a consensus sequence for the polyomavirus enhancer binding-protein 2 -LRB- PEBP2 -RRB- transcription factor, which consists of alpha and beta subunits.
There are at least two genes, alpha A and alpha B, encoding the alpha subunit.
alpha B is the mouse homologue of human AML1 gene detected at the breakpoints of t -LRB- 8 ; 21 -RRB- and t -LRB- 3 ; 21 -RRB- myeloid leukemias.
We examined alpha A1 -LRB- an alpha A-gene product -RRB- and alpha B1 and alpha B2 -LRB- two alpha B-encoded isomers -RRB- for their effects on the GM-CSF promoter.
PEBP2 alpha A1, alpha B1, and alpha B2 proteins bound the PEBP2 site within the mouse GM-CSF promoter.
PEBP2 alpha A1 and alpha B1 enhanced the expression of the GM-CSF promoter-driven reporter plasmid in unstimulated and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate/phytohemagglutinin-stimulated human Jurkat T cells.
In contrast, the promoter activity was suppressed by alpha B2.
Coexpression of alpha B1 and alpha B2 showed that the promoter activity could be determined by the alpha B1/alpha B2 ratio.
Jurkat cell extract contained PEBP2 site-binding protein -LRB- s -RRB- that cross-reacted with antimouse alpha A1 antibodies.
Northern blot analysis indicated the expression of human PEBP2 alpha A, alpha B -LRB- AML1 -RRB-, and beta genes in Jurkat cells.
Transcriptional regulation of the vacuolar H -LRB- + -RRB- - ATPase B2 subunit gene in differentiating THP-1 cells.
Monocyte-macrophage differentiation was used as a model system for studying gene regulation of the human vacuolar H -LRB- + -RRB- - ATPase -LRB- V-ATPase -RRB-.
We examined mRNA levels of various V-ATPase subunits during differentiation of both native monocytes and the cell line THP-1, and found that transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms could account for increases in cell V-ATPase content.
From nuclear runoff experiments, we found that one subunit in particular, the B2 isoform -LRB- Mr = 56,000 -RRB-, was amplified primarily by transcriptional means.
We have begun to examine the structure of the B2 subunit promoter region.
Isolation and sequencing of the first exon and 5' - flanking region of this gene reveal a TATA-less promoter with a high G + C content.
We transfected promoter-luciferase reporter plasmids into THP-1 cells to define sequences that mediate transcriptional control during monocyte differentiation.
We found that sequences downstream from the transcriptional start site were sufficient to confer increased expression during THP-1 differentiation.
DNase I footprinting and sequence analysis revealed the existence of multiple AP2 and Sp1 binding sites in the 5' - untranslated and proximal coding regions.
Functional characterization of novel IL-2 transcriptional inhibitors.
IL-2-mediated T cell proliferation is a critical early event in the inflammatory process.
Formation of the NFAT-1 transcriptional complex on the IL-2 promoter is essential for IL-2 transcription.
Using a cell line that is stably transfected with a trimer of the NFAT-1 regulatory element linked to a lac-Z reporter gene, we screened for inhibitors of NFAT-1-mediated beta-galactosidase activity.
WIN 61058 and WIN 53071 were identified as microM inhibitors.
These compounds also inhibited beta-galactosidase mRNA levels.
Similar inhibition of NFAT-1-mediated gene expression was observed in a second cell line, which is stably transfected with NFAT-1 regulatory elements linked to the reporter gene for sCD8.
At 10 microM, both compounds inhibited IL-2 mRNA and protein levels in the NFAT-1-linked lac-Z transfectants, and in human lymphocytes.
Both compounds inhibited the mixed lymphocyte reaction, and this inhibition was reversed by exogenous IL-2.
WIN 53071 inhibited IL-2 production induced in the calcium-dependent PMA and ionomycin pathway.
Conversely, calcium-independent anti-CD28 Ab and PMA-induced IL-2 production was resistant.
Both compounds altered the NFAT-1 transcriptional complex, causing its retarded mobility on gels.
A regulatory element in the human interleukin 2 gene promoter is a binding site for the zinc finger proteins Sp1 and EGR-1.
Activation of the interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- gene after antigen recognition is a critical event for T cell proliferation and effector function.
Prior studies have identified several transcription factors that contribute to the activity of the IL-2 promoter in stimulated T lymphocytes.
Here we describe a novel regulatory element within the IL-2 promoter located immediately upstream of the nuclear factor of activated T cell -LRB- NFAT -RRB- domain.
This region -LRB- termed the zinc finger protein binding region -LRB- ZIP -RRB- -RRB- serves as binding site for two differently regulated zinc finger proteins : the constitutively expressed transcription factor Sp1 and the inducible early growth response protein EGR-1.
In unstimulated cells which do not secrete IL-2, only Sp1 binds to this region, while in stimulated IL-2 secreting cells the inducible EGR-1 protein recognizes this element.
In Jurkat T cells, the ZIP site serves as an activator for IL-2 gene expression, and a combination of ZIP and NFAT binding sites is required for maximal IL-2 promoter activity.
Nitric oxide-stimulated guanine nucleotide exchange on p21ras.
The protooncogene p21ras, a monomeric G protein family member, plays a critical role in converting extracellular signals into intracellular biochemical events.
Here, we report that nitric oxide -LRB- NO -RRB- activates p21ras in human T cells as evidenced by an increase in GTP-bound p21ras.
In vitro studies using pure recombinant p21ras demonstrate that the activation is direct and reversible.
Circular dichroism analysis reveals that NO induces a profound conformational change in p21ras in association with GDP/GTP exchange.
The mechanism of activation is due to S-nitrosylation of a critical cysteine residue which stimulates guanine nucleotide exchange.
Furthermore, we demonstrate that p21ras is essential for NO-induced downstream signaling, such as NF-kappa B activation, and that endogenous NO can activate p21ras in the same cell.
These studies identify p21ras as a target of the same cell.
IL-1 receptor and TCR signals synergize to activate NF-kappa B-mediated gene transcription.
Previous studies have demonstrated that IL-1 receptor -LRB- IL-1R -RRB- - and TCR-initiated signals can interact synergistically to increase the rate of transcription of several lymphokine and lymphokine receptor genes during the competence phase of the activation program in T helper lymphocytes.
In this report we describe how signals initiated through the type I IL-1R interact with signals from the antigen receptor to synergistically augment the transactivating properties of NF-kappa B..
The synergistic antigen receptor initiated signals are mediated through protein kinase C because they can be mimicked by the phorbol ester, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate, but not with calcium ionophores ; and are staurosporine sensitive but cyclosporine resistant.
Gel shift analyses demonstrate that NF-kappa B nuclear translocation is stimulated primarily by IL-1 rather than by antigen receptor signals.
Western blot and phosphorylation analyses demonstrate that the synergistic effect on NF-kappa B functional activity is independent of I kappa B alpha -LRB- MAD3 -RRB- - NF-kappa B dissociation in the cytosol and is not associated with I kappa B nuclear translocation.
The IL-1-induced NF-kappa B DNA nuclear localization is transient and can be prolonged either by an antigen receptor-initiated signal or by inhibiting protein synthesis.
Induction of transcription factors in human T lymphocytes by aspirin-like drugs.
Aspirin-like drugs -LRB- ALD -RRB- induce calcium mobilization, an essential component of T cell activation, but do not induce the biosynthesis of IL-2.
We found that ALD induce a transient activation of protein kinase -LRB- PKC -RRB- but have no effect -LRB- in comparison to anti-CD3 antibodies -RRB- on protein tyrosine phosphorylation nor on PCL gamma 1 tyrosine phosphorylation.
ALD-induced calcium mobilization and PKC activation are independent of tyrosine protein kinase activity as shown by the lack of effect of herbimycin, a tyrosine-protein kinase-specific inhibitor.
Although we detected no IL-2 mRNA in ALD-treated cells, the nuclei of these cells contain proteins capable of binding to three regulatory sequences in the IL-2 promoter region : NFAT, NF kappa B, and AP-1.
These binding activities are expressed only in activated T cells.
The expression of AP-1 depended on calcium mobilization and PKC activation.
The signal is transmitted to the nucleus and induces DNA-binding activity by several transcription factors.
However, the ALD stimulus is not capable of causing complete T cell activation.
cDNA cloning of a NGFI-B/nur77-related transcription factor from an apoptotic human T cell line.
A human T lymphoid cell line, PEER, dies by apoptosis in the presence of PMA and calcium ionophore.
A new gene, TINUR, was cloned from apoptotic PEER cells.
The expression of the TINUR gene is induced within 1 h after the cross-linking of the T cell Ag receptor complex.
TINUR belongs to the NGFI-B/nur77 family of the steroid receptor superfamily and is an orphan receptor.
TINUR binds to the same DNA sequence as NGFI-B/nur77.
Platelet-activating factor stimulates transcription of the heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor in monocytes.
Correlation with an increased kappa B binding activity.
Human peripheral blood monocytes responded to stimulation of platelet-activating factor -LRB- PAF -RRB- with up-regulation of the transcript for heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor -LRB- HB-EGF -RRB-, a potent mitogen for vascular smooth muscle cells.
This function of PAF was observed at nanomolar concentrations of the ligand, starting at 30 min after stimulation.
The PAF-induced up-regulation of HB-EGF mRNA was accompanied by an increase in kappa B binding activity.
The antagonists, however, had no effect on phorbol ester-induced up-regulation of HB-EGF mRNA and kappa B binding activity.
Pretreatment of monocytes with pertussis toxin inhibited these functions of PAF, whereas cholera toxin had no inhibitory effect.
Pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate, an inhibitor for NF-kappa B activation, markedly reduced PAF-stimulated kappa B binding activity as well as up-regulation of HB-EGF mRNA.
Constitutive activation of different Jak tyrosine kinases in human T cell leukemia virus type 1 -LRB- HTLV-1 -RRB- tax protein or virus-transformed cells.
HTLV-1 infection causes an adult T cell leukemia in humans.
Our previous data obtained from a tax transgenic mouse model revealed that tax transforms mouse fibroblasts but not thymocytes, despite comparable levels of tax expression in both tissues.
Constitutive tyrosine phosphorylation of a 130-kD protein -LRB- s -RRB- was observed in the tax transformed fibroblast B line and in HTLV-1 transformed human lymphoid lines, but not in thymocytes from Thy-tax transgenic mice.
Phosphotyrosine immunoprecipitation followed by Western blot analysis with a set of Jak kinase specific antibodies, identified p130 as Jak2 in the tax transformed mouse fibroblastic cell line and Jak3 in HTLV-1 transformed human T cell lines.
Phosphorylation of Jak2 in tax transformed cells resulted from high expression of IL-6.
Tyrosine phosphorylation of this protein could also be induced in Balb/c3T3 cells using a supernatant from the B line, which was associated with induction of cell proliferation.
Both phosphorylation and proliferation were inhibited by IL-6 neutralizing antibodies.
Regulation of transcription of the human erythropoietin receptor gene by proteins binding to GATA-1 and Sp1 motifs.
Erythropoietin -LRB- Epo -RRB-, the primary regulator of the production of erythroid cells, acts by binding to a cell surface receptor -LRB- EpoR -RRB- on erythroid progenitors.
We used deletion analysis and transfection assays with reporter gene constructs to examine the transcription control elements in the 5' flanking region of the human EpoR gene.
In erythroid cells most of the transcription activity was contained in a 150 bp promoter fragment with binding sites for transcription factors AP2, Sp1 and the erythroid-specific GATA-1.
The 150 bp hEpoR promoter exhibited high and low activity in erythroid OCIM1 and K562 cells, respectively, reflecting the high and low levels of constitutive hEpoR expression.
The GATA-1 and Sp1 binding sites in this promoter lacking a TATA sequence were necessary for a high level of transcription activation.
By increasing GATA-1 levels via co-transfection, we were able to transactivate the hEpoR promoter in K562 cells and non-erythroid cells, but not in the highly active OCIM1 cells, although GATA-1 mRNA levels were comparable in OCIM1 and K562.
Interestingly, when we mutated the Sp1 site, resulting in a marked decrease in hEpoR promoter activity, we could restore transactivation by increasing GATA-1 levels in OCIM1 cells.
Infection and replication of Tat - human immunodeficiency viruses : genetic analyses of LTR and tat mutations in primary and long-term human lymphoid cells.
Tat is an essential regulatory protein for the replication of human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB-.
Mutations in the tat gene have been shown to block HIV replication in human T cells.
To test these hypotheses, we studied several tat mutants, including two stop codon mutants and one deletion mutant using replication-competent HIV-1 constructs carrying wild-type or mutant LTRs with modifications in the NF-kappa B and/or Sp1 binding sites.
In this study, we show that Tat - HIV-1 with wild-type LTRs can replicate in HeLa cells, and the virus produced from HeLa cells can infect primary peripheral blood lymphocytes and macrophages.
It was found that the propagation of the Tat mutants containing wild-type LTRs was less efficient than that of the LTR-modified Tat mutants.
Large amounts of viral RNA and particles were synthesized in infections established using the tat mutants that contain modified LTRs.
However, this efficient propagation of the LTR-modified tat mutants was restricted to some lymphoid cell lines that have been transformed with other viruses.
Thus, despite its essential role for releasing an elongation block, Tat is not otherwise absolutely required for synthesis of full-length HIV transcripts and assembly of virus particles.
The implications for in vivo HIV-1 replication and potential application of this system to the study of alternative Tat function are discussed.
Activation and expression of the nuclear factors of activated T cells, NFATp and NFATc, in human natural killer cells : regulation upon CD16 ligand binding.
We report here that the nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFATp -RRB-, a cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB- - sensitive factor that regulates the transcription of several cytokines, mediates CD16-induced activation of cytokine genes in human NK cells.
CD16 -LRB- Fc gamma RIIIA -RRB- - induced expression of cytokine mRNA in NK cells occurs via a CsA-sensitive and Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - dependent mechanism.
Stimulation of NK cells with CD16 ligands induces NFAT-like DNA binding activity in the nuclear extracts from these cells, as detected in electrophoretic mobility shift assays.
This occurs with fast kinetics after stimulation, via a CsA-sensitive and Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - dependent mechanism that does not require de novo protein synthesis.
NK cell NFAT is present in the cytosol of nonstimulated cells, migrates to the nucleus upon stimulation, and can associate with AP-1.
Two distinct molecules, NFATp and NFATc, have been reported to mediate NFAT activity.
NK cells do not express NFATc constitutively, but NFATc mRNA accumulation is induced in these cells within 2 h of stimulation with CD16 ligands.
However, supershift assays using the available mAb recognizing the T cell NFATc revealed no detectable NFATc protein in nuclear and cytoplasmic extracts from CD16 - or phorbol ester-stimulated cells at any time tested, up to 4 h..
These results provide the first direct evidence that both CsA-sensitive transcription factors, NFATp and NFATc, are expressed in human NK cells, and that their activation and/or expression can be regulated in primary cells by a single stimulus, that, in the case of CD16 in NK cells, results in early activation of NFATp and subsequently induced expression of NFATc mRNA.
Ubiquitin-mediated processing of NF-kappa B transcriptional activator precursor p105.
Reconstitution of a cell-free system and identification of the ubiquitin-carrier protein, E2, and a novel ubiquitin-protein ligase, E3, involved in conjugation.
In most cases, the transcriptional factor NF-kappa B is a heterodimer consisting of two subunits, p50 and p65, which are encoded by two distinct genes of the Rel family.
p50 is translated as a precursor of 105 kDa.
The C-terminal domain of the precursor is rapidly degraded, forming the mature p50 subunit consisted of the N-terminal region of the molecule.
Palombella and colleagues -LRB- Palombella, V.J., Rando, O.J., Goldberg, A.L., and Maniatis, T. -LRB- 1994 -RRB- Cell 78, 773-785 -RRB- have shown that ubiquitin is required for the processing in a cell-free system of a truncated, artificially constructed, 60-kDa precursor.
They have also shown that proteasome inhibitors block the processing both in vitro and in vivo.
In this study, we demonstrate reconstitution of a cell-free processing system and demonstrate directly that : -LRB- a -RRB- the ubiquitin-proteasome system is involved in processing of the intact p105 precursor, -LRB- b -RRB- conjugation of ubiquitin to the precursor is an essential intermediate step in the processing, -LRB- c -RRB- the recently discovered novel species of the ubiquitin-carrier protein, E2-F1, that is involved in the conjugation and degradation of p53, is also required for the limited processing of the p105 precursor, and -LRB- d -RRB- a novel, approximately 320-kDa species of ubiquitin-protein ligase, is involved in the process.
This novel enzyme is distinct from E6-AP, the p53-conjugating ligase, and from E3 alpha, the `` N-end rule '' ligase.
The hematopoietic transcription factor PU .1 is downregulated in human multiple myeloma cell lines.
PU .1 is a hematopoietic transcription factor belonging to the Ets-family.
It is identical to the Spi-1 oncogene, which is implicated in spleen focus-forming virus-induced murine erythroleukemias.
It binds the so-called Pu box, an important tissue-specific regulatory DNA element present in a number of genes expressed in these cell lineages.
We have analyzed the expression and activity of PU .1 during human B-cell development using a panel of B-cell lines representing different stages of maturation, from early precursors to differentiated plasma cells.
PU .1 mRNA expression and PU .1 DNA binding activity, as measured by Northern blot analysis and electrophoretic mobility shift assay, respectively, were evident in cell lines representing pro-B, pre-B, and mature B cells.
We could also show Pu box-dependent transactivation of a reporter gene in transient transfections in these cell lines.
In contrast, in a number of multiple myeloma cell lines, representing differentiated, plasma cell-like B cells, PU .1 DNA binding activity, mRNA expression, and Pu box-dependent transactivation were absent or detectable at a very low level.
In lymphoblastoid cell lines, which exemplify an intermediate stage of B-cell differentiation, a reduced expression and activity were observed.
The findings in the human multiple myeloma cell lines represent the first examples of B cells with downregulated PU .1 expression and apparently contradict observations in the murine system in which PU .1 is expressed and active in plasmacytoma cell lines.
TCL1 oncogene activation in preleukemic T cells from a case of ataxia-telangiectasia.
The TCL1 oncogene on human chromosome 14q32 .1 is involved in chromosome translocations -LSB- t -LRB- 14 ; 14 -RRB- -LRB- q11 ; q32 .1 -RRB- and t -LRB- 7 ; 14 -RRB- -LRB- q35 ; q32 .1 -RRB- -RSB- and inversions -LSB- inv14 -LRB- q11 ; q32 .1 -RRB- -RSB- with TCR alpha/beta loci in T-cell leukemias, such as T-prolymphocytic -LRB- T-PLL -RRB-.
It is also involved in T - acute and - chronic leukemias arising in cases of ataxia-telangiectasia -LRB- AT -RRB-, an immunodeficiency syndrome.
Similar chromosomal rearrangements occur also in the clonally expanded T cells in AT patients before the appearance of the overt leukemia.
We have analyzed the expression of TCL1 mRNA and protein in peripheral blood lymphocytes -LRB- PBLs -RRB- from four AT cases and from healthy controls.
We found that the TCL1 gene was overexpressed in the PBLs of an AT patient with a large clonal T-cell population exhibiting the t -LRB- 14 ; 14 -RRB- translocation but not in the lymphocytes of the other cases.
Fluorescence in situ hybridization of the TCL1 genomic locus to lymphocyte metaphases from the AT patient with the T-cell clonal expansion showed that the breakpoint of the t -LRB- 14 ; 14 -RRB- translocation lies within the TCL1 locus and is accompanied by an inverted duplication of the distal part of chromosome 14.
Interleukin-2 promoter activity in Epstein-Barr virus-transformed B lymphocytes is controlled by nuclear factor-chi B..
The regulation of interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -2 gene expression has been investigated mainly in T lymphocytes, the predominant producers of IL-2.
However, B cells can also synthesize IL-2.
In the present study we analyzed the control of IL-2 promoter activity in Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- - transformed B cell clones which are capable of secreting IL-2 at a low level after stimulation with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and the Ca2 + ionophore ionomycin.
Transient transfections using reporter constructs with multiples of transcription factor binding sites from the IL-2 promoter -LSB- distal nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - AT, proximal NF-AT, AP-1 / Octamer -LRB- UPS -RRB- or NF-chi B -LRB- TCEd -RRB- sites -RSB- were performed.
An IL-2 promoter bearing a defective NF-chi B site was completely inactive in EBV-transformed B cells, while it still had activity in Jurkat T cells.
In seven EBV-B cell clones or lines differing in their capacity to secrete IL-2, the activity of the IL-2 promoter correlated well with the status of IL-2 secretion.
Similarly, a human immunodeficiency virus promoter, whose activity is controlled through chi B factors, was found to be active in the IL-2 producing EBV-B cells, but inactive in the non-IL-2-producing cells.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays using protein extracts from EBV-B cells and the IL-2 NF-chi B probe revealed the constitutive generation of chi B complexes in IL-2-secreting cells consisting mainly of heterodimeric p50/p65 complexes.
A weaker chi B complex formation and faster-migrating complexes were detected in non-IL-2-secreting cells.
E2F-1 and a cyclin-like DNA repair enzyme, uracil-DNA glycosylase, provide evidence for an autoregulatory mechanism for transcription.
The cell cycle-dependent transcription factor, E2F-1, regulates the cyclin-like species of the DNA repair enzyme uracil-DNA glycosylase -LRB- UDG -RRB- gene in human osteosarcoma -LRB- Saos-2 -RRB- cells.
We demonstrate, through the deletion of the human UDG promoter sequences, that expression of E2F-1 activates the UDG promoter through several E2F sites.
The major putative downstream site for E2F, located in the first exon, serves as a target for E2F-1 / DP1 complex binding in vitro.
We also provide evidence for the functional relationship between the cyclin-like UDG gene product and E2F.
High levels of UDG expression in a transient transfection assay result in the down-regulation of transcriptional activity through elements specific for E2F-mediated transcription.
Overexpression of UDG in Saos 2 cells was observed to delay growth late in G1 phase and transiently arrest these cells from progressing into the S phase.
Transcription-independent turnover of I kappa B alpha during monocyte adherence : implications for a translational component regulating I kappa B alpha/MAD -3 mRNA levels.
We identified I kappa B alpha/MAD -3 as an immediate-early gene in human monocytes that is expressed in response to a variety of signals, including adhesion, lipopolysaccharide, and phorbol myristate acetate.
Within 5 min of monocyte adhesion, the level of the I kappa B alpha protein is markedly diminished but is rapidly replaced in a cycloheximide-sensitive manner within 20 min.
Accompanying the rapid turnover of the I kappa B alpha protein is simultaneous translocation of NF-kappa B-related transcription factors to nuclei of adhered monocytes.
The adherence-dependent increase in I kappa B alpha/MAD -3 mRNA levels was also not a consequence of mRNA stabilization events.
Interestingly, while increases in both IL-1 beta and I kappa B alpha/MAD -3 mRNA levels were detected in nuclei of adherent monocytes, cytoplasmic levels of IL-1 beta mRNA increased during adherence whereas those of I kappa B alpha/MAD -3 mRNA did not.
Monocyte tethering by P-selectin regulates monocyte chemotactic protein-1 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha secretion.
Signal integration and NF-kappa B translocation -LSB- see comments -RSB-.
Adhesion of human monocytes to P-selectin, the most rapidly expressed endothelial tethering factor, increased the secretion of monocyte chemotactic protein-1 -LRB- MCP-1 -RRB- and tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- by the leukocytes when they were stimulated with platelet-activating factor.
Increased cytokine secretion was specifically inhibited by G1, an anti-P-selectin mAb that prevents P-selectin from binding to its ligand -LRB- P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 -RRB- on myeloid cells.
Moreover, tethering by P-selectin specifically enhanced nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB-, a transcription factor required for expression of MCP-1, TNF-alpha, and other immediate-early genes.
Aspirin inhibits nuclear factor-kappa B mobilization and monocyte adhesion in stimulated human endothelial cells.
BACKGROUND : The induction of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- VCAM-1 -RRB- and E-selectin by tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF -RRB- is mediated by mobilization of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB-.
Since salicylates have been reported to inhibit NF-kappa B activation by preventing the degradation of its inhibitor I kappa B, we studied a potential inhibition of this pathway by acetylsalicylate -LRB- aspirin -RRB- in human umbilical vein endothelial cells -LRB- HUVECs -RRB-.
METHODS AND RESULTS : Gel-shift analyses demonstrated dose-dependent inhibition of TNF-induced NF-kappa B mobilization by aspirin at concentrations ranging from 1 to 10 mmol/L.
Induction of VCAM-1 and E-selectin surface expression by TNF was dose-dependently reduced by aspirin over the same range, while induction of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- ICAM-1 -RRB- was hardly affected.
As a functional consequence, adhesion of U937 monocytes to TNF-stimulated HUVECs was markedly reduced by aspirin due to suppression of VCAM-1 and E-selectin upregulation.
These effects of aspirin were not related to the inhibition of cyclooxygenase activity, since indomethacin was ineffective.
Cross-linking of CD30 induces HIV expression in chronically infected T cells.
CD30, a member of the tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- receptor family, is expressed constitutively on the surface of the human T cell line ACH-2, which is chronically infected with human immunodeficiency virus type-1 -LRB- HIV -RRB- -1.
We demonstrate that cross-linking CD30 with an anti-CD30-specific monoclonal antibody, which mimics the described biological activities of the CD30 ligand -LRB- CD30L -RRB-, results in HIV expression.
CD30 cross-linking does not alter proliferation of ACH-2 cells and the induction of HIV expression is not mediated by endogenous TNF alpha/beta.
Furthermore, cross-linking of CD30 leads to NF-kappa B activation and enhanced HIV transcription.
Thus, CD30-CD30L interactions mediate the induction of HIV expression by a kappa B-dependent pathway that is independent of TNF.
Danazol decreases transcription of estrogen receptor gene in human monocytes.
1. Administration of danazol for over one month reduced the levels of estrogen receptor -LRB- ER -RRB- and its mRNA to approximately 50 and 20 %, respectively in monocytes.
2. Danazol did not alter the degradation rate of ER mRNA in monocytes.
3. Danazol decreased the transcription rate of ER gene to approximately 50 % in monocytes in a run-on assay.
Nitric oxide decreases cytokine-induced endothelial activation.
Nitric oxide selectively reduces endothelial expression of adhesion molecules and proinflammatory cytokines.
In a concentration-dependent manner, NO inhibited interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -1 alpha-stimulated VCAM-1 expression by 35-55 % as determined by cell surface enzyme immunoassays and flow cytometry.
This inhibition was paralleled by reduced monocyte adhesion to endothelial monolayers in nonstatic assays, was unaffected by cGMP analogues, and was quantitatively similar after stimulation by either IL-1 alpha, IL-1 beta, IL-4, tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF alpha -RRB-, or bacterial lipopolysaccharide.
NO also decreased the endothelial expression of other leukocyte adhesion molecules -LRB- E-selectin and to a lesser extent, intercellular adhesion molecule-1 -RRB- and secretable cytokines -LRB- IL-6 and IL-8 -RRB-.
Inhibition of endogenous NO production by L-N-monomethyl-arginine also induced the expression of VCAM-1, but did not augment cytokine-induced VCAM-1 expression.
Integrin-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation and cytokine message induction in monocytic cells.
Activation of cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases is an important aspect of signal transduction mediated by integrins.
In the human monocytic cell line THP-1, either integrin-dependent cell adhesion to fibronectin or ligation of beta 1 integrins with antibodies causes a rapid and intense tyrosine phosphorylation of two sets of proteins of about 65-75 and 120-125 kDa.
In addition, integrin ligation leads to nuclear translocation of the p50 and p65 subunits of the NF-kappa B transcription factor, to activation of a reporter gene driven by a promoter containing NF-kappa B sites, and to increased levels of mRNAs for immediate-early genes, including the cytokine interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -1 beta.
The tyrosine kinase inhibitors genistein and herbimycin A block both integrin-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation and increases in IL-1 beta message levels, indicating a causal relationship between the two events.
The components tyrosine phosphorylated subsequent to cell adhesion include paxillin, pp125FAK, and the SH2 domain containing tyrosine kinase Syk.
In contrast, integrin ligation with antibodies induces tyrosine phosphorylation of Syk but not of FAK or paxillin.
In adhering cells, pre-treatment with cytochalasin D suppresses tyrosine phosphorylation of FAK and paxillin but not of Syk, while IL-1 beta message induction is unaffected.
CD14-mediated translocation of nuclear factor-kappa B induced by lipopolysaccharide does not require tyrosine kinase activity.
CD14, a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-linked antigen, functions as an LPS signaling receptor.
A critical issue concerns the mechanism by which CD14, which has no transmembrane domain, transduces its signal following LPS binding.
Wild-type Chinese hamster ovary -LRB- CHO -RRB- - K1 cells can be activated by endotoxin to release arachidonate following transfection with human CD14 -LRB- CHO/CD14 -RRB-.
Nuclear translocation of cytosolic NF-kappa B is correlated with a number of LPS-inducible responses.
LPS-stimulated translocation of NF-kappa B in CHO/CD14 cells resembled the same response in the murine macrophage-like cell line RAW 264.7.
Protein synthesis inhibitors and corticosteroids, which suppress arachidonate release and the synthesis of proinflammatory cytokines, had no effect on translocation of NF-kappa B in CHO/CD14 or RAW 264.7 cells, demonstrating that NF-kappa B translocation is an early event.
Although TK activity was consistently observed by immunoblotting extracts from activated RAW 264.7 cells, LPS-induced phosphotyrosine residues were not observed from similarly treated CHO/CD14 cells.
Furthermore, the TK inhibitors herbimycin A and genistein failed to inhibit translocation of NF-kappa B in CHO/CD14 or RAW 264.7 cells, although both of these agents inhibited LPS-induced TK activity in RAW 264.7 cells.
Upregulation of bcl-2 by the Epstein-Barr virus latent membrane protein LMP1 : a B-cell-specific response that is delayed relative to NF-kappa B activation and to induction of cell surface markers.
We therefore reexamined this issue by using two different experimental approaches that allowed LMP1 - induced effects to be monitored immediately following expression of the viral protein and in the absence of selective pressures ; activation of the NF-kappa B transcription factor and upregulation of the cell adhesion molecule ICAM-1 were used as early indices of LMP1 function.
In the first approach, stable clones of two B-cell lines carrying an LMP1 gene under the control of an inducible metallothionein promoter were induced to express LMP1 in all cells.
Activation of NK-kappa B and upregulation of ICAM-1 occurred within 24 h and were followed at 48 to 72 h by upregulation of Bcl-2.
In the second approach, we tested the generality of this phenomenon by transiently expressing LMP1 from a strong constitutively active promoter in a range of different cell types.
All six B-cell lines tested showed NF-kappa B activation in response to LMP1 expression, and this was followed in five of six lines by expression of ICAM-1 and Bcl-2.
In the same experiments, all three non-B-cell lines showed NF-kappa B activation and ICAM-1 upregulation but never any effect upon Bcl-2.
We therefore conclude that Bcl-2 upregulation is part of the panoply of cellular changes induced by LMP1 but that the effect is cell type specific.
Calcium signalling in T cells stimulated by a cyclophilin B-binding protein.
The immunosuppressant drug cyclosporin A blocks a calcium-dependent signal from the T-cell receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- that normally leads to T-cell activation.
When bound to cyclophilin, cyclosporin A binds and inactivates the key signalling intermediate calcineurin.
One gene product, when overexpressed in Jurkat T cells, specifically induced transcription from the interleukin-2 enhancer, by activating the T-cell-specific transcription factors NF-AT and NF-IL2A.
This protein, termed calcium-signal modulating cyclophilin ligand -LRB- CAML -RRB-, acts downstream of the TCR and upstream of calcineurin by causing an influx of calcium.
Regulation of CD14 expression during monocytic differentiation induced with 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3.
CD14, a monocyte/macrophage receptor for the complex of LPS and LPS binding protein, is a differentiation marker for the monocyte/macrophage lineage.
We have analyzed the regulation of CD14 expression during 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 -LRB- VitD3 -RRB- - induced monocytic differentiation.
Using FACS, Northern blotting, and nuclear run-on analyses, we demonstrate that the up-regulation of CD14 expression during monocytic cell maturation is regulated mainly at the level of gene transcription, and that new protein synthesis is required for CD14 induction.
We have recently cloned the CD14 5' upstream sequence and demonstrated its tissue-specific promoter activity.
Using stable transfection of the monocytoid U937 cell line with a series of deletion mutants of the CD14 5' upstream sequence coupled to a reporter gene construct, we show that bp -128 to -70 is the critical region for the induction of CD14 expression.
This region contains two binding sites for the Sp1 transcription factor.
A 3-bp mutation at the distal Sp1-binding site not only eliminates Sp1 interaction, but also abolishes most of the VitD3 induction of CD14 expression.
Electrophoretic mobility shift analysis does not detect a direct interaction of the CD14 distal Sp1-binding site with the vitamin D3 receptor and its partner, the retinoid X receptor.
Steel factor affects SCL expression during normal erythroid differentiation.
Steel factor is one of the growth factors that controls the proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic cells and SCL, also known as Tcl-5 or Tal-1, is a transcription factor involved in erythropoiesis.
In this report, we studied the role of SCL in the proliferation of human peripheral blood burst-forming unit-erythroid -LRB- BFU-E -RRB- and the effects of Steel factor on SCL expression in proliferating erythroid cells.
BFU-E-derived colonies increase progressively in size, as determined by cell number, from day 7 to day 14 of culture, with the greatest increase in colony size -LRB- 10-fold expansion -RRB- occurring between day 7 and day 10.
The role of SCL in Steel factor-induced erythroid proliferation was then examined.
In BFU-E-derived colonies cultured with Steel factor, colony size was significantly increased compared to control.
In day 7 and day 10 erythroid precursors cultured with Steel factor, SCL protein was increased significantly compared to control.
Inducible binding to the c-fos serum response element during T cell activation is regulated by a phosphotyrosine-containing protein.
The proto-oncogene c-fos is an immediate-early gene, and one of the first genes transcribed after stimulation of most cells with a variety of ligands.
The serum response element -LRB- SRE -RRB- in the c-fos regulatory region participates in induction of transcription by various growth factors and by phorbol esters and subsequent squelching of transcription.
We show that an inducible protein complex -LRB- Band A -RRB- binds to SRE DNA within 10 min after mitogenic stimulation of human PBL-T, and becomes nondetectable by 60 min.
Band A contains the serum response factor plus additional factor -LRB- s -RRB-.
A protein that is phosphorylated on a tyrosine residue in resting PBL-T suppresses binding of a component of Band A to the SRE motif.
Upon stimulation of the cells, this protein no longer prevents binding of DNA by Band A, and suppression of binding is restored within 30 min.
The phosphorylated tyrosine residue itself is important for the protein-protein interaction.
Separation of oxidant-initiated and redox-regulated steps in the NF-kappa B signal transduction pathway.
Studies presented here show that overall NF-kappa B signal transduction begins with a parallel series of stimuli-specific pathways through which cytokines -LRB- tumor necrosis factor alpha -RRB-, oxidants -LRB- hydrogen peroxide and mitomycin C -RRB-, and phorbol ester -LRB- phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -RRB- individually initiate signaling.
These initial pathways culminate in a common pathway through which all of the stimulating agents ultimately signal NF-kappa B activation.
We distinguish the stimuli-specific pathways by showing that the oxidative stimuli trigger NF-kappa B activation in only one of two human T-cell lines -LRB- Wurzburg but not Jurkat -RRB-, whereas tumor necrosis factor alpha and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate readily stimulate in both lines.
We propose the common pathway as the simplest way of accounting for the common requirements and properties of the signaling pathway.
We include a redox-regulatory mechanism -LRB- s -RRB- in this common pathway to account for the previously demonstrated redox regulation of NF-kappa B activation in Jurkat cells -LRB- in which oxidants do n't activate NF-kappa B -RRB- ; we put tyrosine phosphorylation in the common pathway by showing that kinase activity -LRB- inhibitable by herbimycin A and tyrphostin 47 -RRB- is required for NF-kappa B activation by all stimuli tested in both cell lines.
Cross-linking CD40 on B cells rapidly activates nuclear factor-kappa B..
The B cell-associated surface molecule CD40 functions to regulate B cell responses.
Tyrosine kinase activity is increased shortly after engagement of this receptor.
Little is known about how the very early events induced by CD40 cross-linking link to cellular responses.
In this study, we demonstrate that nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappa B and NF-kappa B-like transcription factors are activated after cross-linking CD40 on resting human tonsillar B cells and on B cell lines.
The activation is rapid and is mediated through a tyrosine kinase-dependent pathway.
By using transient transfection assays, we found that cross-linking CD40 supports NF-kappa B-dependent gene expression.
Immunosuppression by glucocorticoids : inhibition of NF-kappa B activity through induction of I kappa B synthesis -LSB- see comments -RSB-.
Glucocorticoids are among the most potent anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive agents.
Here it is shown that glucocorticoids are potent inhibitors of nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- activation in mice and cultured cells.
This inhibition is mediated by induction of the I kappa B alpha inhibitory protein, which traps activated NF-kappa B in inactive cytoplasmic complexes.
Pathogenesis of atherosclerosis.
The earliest lesion in the development of an atherosclerotic plaque is the fatty streak.
This chronic inflammatory reaction results from a sequence of events that begins with the trapping of low density lipoprotein -LRB- LDL -RRB- in the subendothelial space of the artery wall.
The trapped LDL is seeded with oxidative species released by the overlying endothelium, and lipid oxidation is initiated within the LDL particle.
Some of the lipids that result lead to the activation of NFkB-like transcription factors that cause the expression of genes whose protein products mediate monocyte binding, monocyte chemotaxis into the subendothelial space, and conversion into macrophages.
At least 1 major gene modulates the oxidation of LDL lipids and/or the biologic response to these lipids.
HMG-I binds to GATA motifs : implications for an HPFH syndrome.
We have examined binding of the nuclear protein HMG-I to the human gamma-globin promoter.
We find that HMG-I binds preferentially to the more 3' of a pair of GATA motifs in the gamma-globin promoter ; this paired motif is bound by the erythroid factor GATA-1.
A naturally occurring mutation -LRB- -175 T-C -RRB- in the area bound by HMG-I results in overexpression of gamma-globin in adult red blood cells -LRB- HPFH -RRB- and up-regulation of the gamma-globin promoter in in vitro expression assays ; HMG-I does not bind to this mutant sequence.
A survey of GATA motifs from other globin cis-elements demonstrates HMG-I binding to most of them.
The myeloid zinc finger gene, MZF-1, regulates the CD34 promoter in vitro.
The MZF-1 protein contains 13 C2H2 zinc fingers arranged in bipartite DNA binding domains containing zinc fingers through 4 and, in the carboxy-terminus, 5 through 13.
We previously identified the DNA consensus binding site recognized by the two DNA binding domains.
To assess the transcription regulatory function of MZF-1, the full-length MZF-1 coding region was fused to the DNA binding domain of the yeast transactivator GAL4.
The expression vector was cotransfected with the chloramphenicol acetyl transferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- reporter gene regulated by the thymidine kinase promoter containing GAL4 DNA binding sites into NIH 3T3, 293, K562, and Jurkat cell lines.
MZF-1 represses CAT reporter gene expression via GAL4 binding sites in the nonhematopoietic cell lines NIH 3T3 and 293.
In contrast, MZF-1 activates CAT reporter gene expression in the hematopoietic cell lines K562 and Jurkat.
The MZF-1 binding sites are present in the promoters of several genes expressed during myeloid differentiation, including the CD34 promoter.
MZF-1 transcriptional regulation of this physiologically relevant promoter was assessed in both hematopoietic and nonhematopoietic cell lines.
Recombinant MZF-1 protein specifically binds to the consensus binding sites in the CD34 promoter in mobility shift assays.
MZF-1 expression vectors were cotransfected with the luciferase reporter plasmids regulated by the CD34 promoter into both nonhematopoietic and hematopoietic cell lines.
As with the heterologous DNA binding domain, MZF-1 represses reporter gene expression in nonhematopoietic cell lines and activates expression in hematopoietic cell lines.
Activation of CD34 expression in hematopoietic cell lines is dependent on the presence of intact MZF-1 binding sites.
The normal cell cycle activation program is exploited during the infection of quiescent B lymphocytes by Epstein-Barr virus.
B lymphocytes in the peripheral circulation are maintained in a non-proliferative state.
Antigen recognition stimulates limited proliferation, whereas infection with Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- results in continual proliferation and the outgrowth of immortal cell lines.
We show that the expression of four cell genes, cdc-2, cyclin E, CD23, and cyclin D2, are up-regulated approximately 100-fold as a result of EBV-mediated immortalization.
CD30 ligation induces nuclear factor-kappa B activation in human T cell lines.
CD30 is a recently described member of the tumor necrosis factor/nerve growth factor receptor superfamily.
In this report, we show that following incubation of L540 cells -LRB- Hodgkin 's disease-derived, T cell-like, CD30 + cells -RRB- with the agonistic anti-CD30 monoclonal antibodies -LRB- mAb -RRB- M44 and M67, two nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappa B DNA binding activities were induced in nuclear extracts, as determined in gel retardation assays.
The effect of the mAb towards NF-kappa B activation was rapid, as it occurred within 20 min, and was sustained for up to 6 h..
By comparison, an isotype-matched antibody had no effect on NF-kappa B activation.
Moreover, in human T helper -LRB- Th -RRB- clones functionally characterized as being of the type 0, type 1 and type 2 -LRB- 28 %, < 1 % und 93 % CD30 +, respectively -RRB-, the extent of CD30-mediated NF-kappa B activation correlated with the proportion of CD30 + cells.
Collectively, our results demonstrate that nuclear translocation and activation of NF-kappa B rank among the short-term cellular responses elicited following CD30 ligation.
Constitutive NF-kappa B activation, enhanced granulopoiesis, and neonatal lethality in I kappa B alpha-deficient mice.
Transcription factors belonging to the NF-kappa B family are controlled by inhibitory I kappa B proteins, mainly I kappa B alpha and I kappa B beta.
Apparently normal at birth, I kappa B alpha - / - mice exhibit severe runting, skin defects, and extensive granulopoiesis postnatally, typically dying by 8 days.
NF-kappa B elevation results in these phenotypic abnormalities because mice lacking both I kappa B alpha and the p50 subunit of NF-kappa B show a dramatically delayed onset of abnormalities.
In contrast to hematopoietic cells, I kappa B alpha - / - embryonic fibroblasts show minimal constitutive NF-kappa B, as well as normal signal-dependent NF-kappa B activation that is concomitant with I kappa B beta degradation.
However, I kappa B alpha is required for the postinduction repression of NF-kappa B in fibroblasts.
These results define distinct roles for the two forms of I kappa B and demonstrate the necessity for stringent control of NF-kappa B..
Vitamin E therapy of acute CCl4-induced hepatic injury in mice is associated with inhibition of nuclear factor kappa B binding.
Oxidative stress enhances nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- activity, and NF-kappa B activity has been shown to enhance the expression of cytotoxic cytokines.
Acute hepatic injury caused by reactive oxygen intermediate production was induced by an intraperitoneal injection of CCl4 in mice.
This injury was significantly inhibited by intravenous pretreatment of the mice with a water-soluble emulsion of alpha-tocopherol.
Alpha-tocopherol treatment of the mice given the CCl4 also reduced the NF-kappa B binding to levels approaching those found in normal mice.
In vitro treatment of a monocyte/macrophage cell line with CCl4 led to enhanced NF-kappa B binding and an increase in tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- messenger RNA levels.
Liver specimens taken from patients with acute fulminant hepatitis had markedly increased NF-kappa B binding activity in comparison with the binding of normal livers.
These data demonstrate that abolishing acute hepatic injury with alpha-tocopherol, a free radical scavenger, also eliminated increased NF-kappa B binding.
Distinct signaling properties identify functionally different CD4 epitopes.
The CD4 coreceptor interacts with non-polymorphic regions of major histocompatibility complex class II molecules on antigen-presenting cells and contributes to T cell activation.
We have investigated the effect of CD4 triggering on T cell activating signals in a lymphoma model using monoclonal antibodies -LRB- mAb -RRB- which recognize different CD4 epitopes.
We demonstrate that CD4 triggering delivers signals capable of activating the NF-AT transcription factor which is required for interleukin-2 gene expression.
Whereas different anti-CD4 mAb or HIV-1 gp120 could all trigger activation of the protein tyrosine kinases p56lck and p59fyn and phosphorylation of the Shc adaptor protein, which mediates signals to Ras, they differed significantly in their ability to activate NF-AT.
The results identify functionally distinct epitopes on the CD4 coreceptor involved in activation of the Ras/protein kinase C and calcium pathways.
Lipopolysaccharide-induced E-selectin expression requires continuous presence of LPS and is inhibited by bactericidal/permeability-increasing protein.
Endothelial cells stimulated by LPS express E-selectin, which plays an important role in mediating neutrophil adhesion during inflammation.
E-selectin is induced within 1-2 h, peaks at 4-6 h, and gradually returns to basal level by 24 h..
rBPI21, a recombinant N-terminal fragment of human bactericidal/permeability-increasing protein -LRB- BPI -RRB-, inhibited LPS-induced E-selectin expression when added at the same time as, and up to 6 h after, LPS.
Delayed administration of rBPI21 also affected LPS-mediated activation of the nuclear factor, NF-kappa B..
Two to 4 h following LPS addition to endothelial cells, when NF-kappa B was already activated, addition of rBPI21 resulted in marked reduction of NF-kappa B detectable at 4 or 6 h..
Costimulation of human CD4 + T cells with LFA-3 and B7 induce distinct effects on AP-1 and NF-kappa B transcription factors.
We have earlier shown that stimulation of human CD4 + T cells with SEA presented on Chinese hamster ovary -LRB- CHO -RRB- - DR transfectants coexpressing either B7 or LFA-3 resulted in distinct cytokine profiles.
We now demonstrate that B7, but not LFA-3, strongly costimulated IL-2 transcription and mRNA expression in CD4 + T cells.
Gel-shift analysis demonstrated that stimulation of CD4 + T cells with CHO-DR and staphylococcal enterotoxin A was sufficient to induce significant amounts of NF-kappa B binding proteins, whereas induction of AP-1 binding proteins required costimulation.
LFA-3 induced moderate levels of AP-1, but did not influence the levels of NF-kappa B, while B7 costimulation strongly induced both AP-1 and substantially enhanced NF-kappa B binding proteins.
The CHO-DR/B7/LFA -3 triple transfectant induced a further increase in AP-1 and NF-kappa B binding proteins compared with the double transfectants.
The level of Oct-1 binding proteins remained similar in all samples.
Super-shift analysis revealed that the NF-kappa B complex of costimulated CD4 + T cells contained large amounts of p50, substantial amounts of p65, and marginal levels of c-Rel proteins.
The AP-1 binding proteins contained c-Jun, Jun-D, and Fra-1, but marginal amounts of Jun-B and c-Fos.
Our results indicate distinct effects of B7 and LFA-3 costimulation on the activity of AP-1 and NF-kappa B..
Regulation of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and E-selectin expression in endothelial cells by cyclosporin A and the T-cell transcription factor NFAT.
Nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB- was originally described as a T-cell-specific transcription factor athat supported the activation of cytokine gene expression and mediated the immunoregulatory effects of cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB-.
As we observed that activated endothelial cells also expressed NFAT, we tested the antiinflammatory properties of CsA in endothelial cells.
Significantly, CsA completely suppressed the induction of NFAT in endothelial cells and inhibited the activity of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB- gene regulatory elements that use NFAT by 60 %.
CsA similarly mediated a reduction of up to 65 % in GM-CSF mRNA and protein expression in activated endothelial cells.
CsA also suppressed E-selectin, but not vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- VCAM-1 -RRB- expression in endothelial cells, even though the E-selectin promoter is activated by NF-kappa B rather than NFAT.
Hence, induction of cell surface expression of this leukocyte adhesion molecule by tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- - alpha was reduced by 40 % in the presence of CsA, and this was reflected by a 29 % decrease in neutrophil adhesion.
The effects of CsA on endothelial cells were also detected at the chromatin structure level, as DNasel hypersensitive sites within both the GM-CSF enhancer and the E-selectin promoter were suppressed by CsA.
Signalling via CD28 of human naive neonatal T lymphocytes.
Accessory molecules play a crucial role in the development of the T cell response to antigenic challenge.
We have examined the role of CD28 in modulating the ` naive' neonatal T cell response to anti-CD2-mediated activation.
To compare the role of CD28, neonatal and adult T cells were stimulated with a pair of mitogenic anti-CD2 antibodies in the presence or absence of anti-CD28 MoAb.
With anti-CD2 alone, neonatal T cells proliferated slightly but produced no detectable IL-2, whereas adult T cells proliferated vigorously, with significant IL-2 production.
Costimulation with anti-CD28 MoAb greatly enhanced the proliferative response of neonatal T cells to levels equivalent to those of adult T cells, whereas adult T cells showed only slight increases.
Although IL-2 secretion was increased in the presence of anti-CD28 MoAb, neonatal T cell IL-2 production remained lower than in adults.
In contrast, enhancement of IL-2 mRNA expression in neonates was similar to adult levels.
Anti-CD28 MoAb costimulation increased NF kappa B levels in neonates, albeit to levels lower than that of adults.
Regulation of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and cytokine gene expression in myeloid cells by NF-kappa B/Rel transcription factors.
CD4 + macrophages in tissues such as lung, skin, and lymph nodes, promyelocytic cells in bone marrow, and peripheral blood monocytes serve as important targets and reservoirs for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- replication.
HIV-1-infected myeloid cells are often diminished in their ability to participate in chemotaxis, phagocytosis, and intracellular killing.
Enhancement of HIV-1 replication is related in part to increased DNA-binding activity of cellular transcription factors such as NF-kappa B..
NF-kappa B binds to the HIV-1 enhancer region of the long terminal repeat and contributes to the inducibility of HIV-1 gene expression in response to multiple activating agents.
Phosphorylation and degradation of the cytoplasmic inhibitor I kappa B alpha are crucial regulatory events in the activation of NF-kappa B DNA-binding activity.
Both N - and C-terminal residues of I kappa B alpha are required for inducer-mediated degradation.
Chronic HIV-1 infection of myeloid cells leads to constitutive NF-kappa B DNA-binding activity and provides an intranuclear environment capable of perpetuating HIV-1 replication.
In response to secondary pathogenic infections or antigenic challenge, cytokine gene expression is rapidly induced, enhanced, and sustained over prolonged periods in HIV-1-infected myeloid cells compared with uninfected cells.
Elevated levels of several inflammatory cytokines have been detected in the sera of HIV-1-infected individuals.
Transcriptional repression of the interleukin-2 gene by vitamin D3 : direct inhibition of NFATp/AP -1 complex formation by a nuclear hormone receptor.
T-lymphocyte proliferation is suppressed by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 -LSB- 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 -RSB-, the active metabolite of vitamin D3, and is associated with a decrease in interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB-, gamma interferon, and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor mRNA levels.
We therefore examined vitamin D3-mediated repression of activated IL-2 expression by cotransfecting Jurkat cells with IL-2 promoter/reporter constructs and a VDR overexpression vector and by DNA binding.
We delineated an element conferring both DNA binding by the receptor in vitro and 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3-mediated repression in vivo to a short 40-bp region encompassing an important positive regulatory element, NF-AT-1, which is bound by a T-cell-specific transcription factor, NFATp, as well as by AP-1.
VDR DNA-binding mutants were unable to either bind to this element in vitro or repress in vivo ; the VDR DNA-binding domain alone, however, bound the element but also could not repress IL-2 expression.
By combining partially purified proteins in vitro, we observed the loss of the bound NFATp/AP -1 - DNA complex upon inclusion of VDR or VDR-retinoid X receptor.
An interferon-gamma activation sequence mediates the transcriptional regulation of the IgG Fc receptor type IC gene by interferon-gamma.
Expression of the IgG Fc receptor type I -LRB- Fc gamma RI -RRB- on myeloid cells is dramatically increased by treatment with interferon-gamma -LRB- IFN-gamma -RRB-.
We observed that Fc gamma RI transcript levels in monoblast-like U937 cells were elevated within 3 hr and peaked 12 hr after exposure to IFN-gamma.
Treatment of U937 with IFN-gamma for 9 hr in the presence of cycloheximide led to super-induction of Fc gamma RI expression.
Nuclear run-on analysis revealed that the rate of Fc gamma RI transcription was increased by IFN-gamma.
Genomic sequence upstream of the Fc gamma RIC gene was cloned and subjected to primer extension analysis, which demonstrated a single transcription initiation site without a TATA box.
Transient transfections of CAT reporter gene constructs containing various Fc gamma RIC promoter sequences into U937 cells revealed that a 20-bp region surrounding the transcription start site -LRB- -7 to +13 -RRB- was capable of mediating transcription initiation and that an IFN-gamma responsive element -LRB- GIRE -RRB- was present within 74 bp upstream of the transcription initiation site.
A 17-bp sequence between positions -51 and -35 conferred IFN-gamma responsiveness on a heterologous promoter.
Double-stranded GIRE sequence, but not a scrambled sequence, was specifically bound by nuclear proteins from IFN-gamma treated U937 cells.
Gel shift experiments further showed that the STAT1 alpha protein bound to the Fc gamma RIC GIRE in response to IFN-gamma treatment of U937 cells.
The Fc gamma RIC GIRE is homologous to the IFN-gamma activation sequence -LRB- GAS -RRB- of the guanylate binding protein and to X box elements of class II MHC genes.
Our results demonstrate that transcriptional regulation of the Fc gamma RIC gene by IFN-gamma involves the binding of STAT1 alpha to a 17-bp GAS homology in the proximal promoter.
Protease inhibitors block lipopolysaccharide induction of tissue factor gene expression in human monocytic cells by preventing activation of c-Rel/p65 heterodimers.
Tissue factor -LRB- TF -RRB- is expressed rapidly by human monocytes exposed to bacterial endotoxin -LRB- lipopolysaccharide, or LPS -RRB-.
Transcriptional regulation is mediated by binding of c-Rel/p65 heterodimers to a kappa B-like site in the TF promoter.
Nuclear translocation of cytosolic c-Rel/p65 heterodimers and other members of the NF-kappa B/Rel family requires dissociation and proteolytic degradation of the inhibitor protein, I kappa B alpha.
The protease inhibitors N alpha-tosylphenylalanyl chloromethyl ketone -LRB- TPCK -RRB- and N alpha-tosyl-L-lysine chloromethyl ketone -LRB- TLCK -RRB- block activation of NF-kappa B/Rel proteins by preventing degradation of I kappa B alpha.
Both TPCK and TLCK inhibited LPS induction of TF protein, TF mRNA and TF promoter activity in a dose-dependent manner.
These inhibitors specifically prevented degradation of I kappa B alpha and nuclear translocation of c-Rel/p65 heterodimers.
In contrast, TPCK and TLCK did not block induction of an immediate-early gene encoding the transcription factor, Egr-1.
Regulation of interleukin-2 receptor alpha chain expression and nuclear factor.kappa B activation by protein kinase C in T lymphocytes.
Autocrine role of tumor necrosis factor alpha.
The regulation of interleukin-2 receptor alpha chain -LRB- IL-2R alpha -RRB- expression and nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- activation by protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- in resting T cells, has been studied.
Treatment of human resting T cells with phorbol esters strongly induced the expression of IL-2R alpha and the activation of NF.kappa B..
This activation was due to the translocation of p65 and c-Rel NF.kappa B proteins from cytoplasmic stores to the nucleus, where they bound the kappa B sequence of the IL-2R alpha promoter either as p50.p65 or as p50.c-Rel heterodimers.
Interestingly, all of those events were largely indirect and mediated by endogenously secreted tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF alpha -RRB-, as they were strongly inhibited by a neutralizing anti-TNF alpha monoclonal antibody.
Furthermore, cyclosporin A, which blocked TNF alpha production induced by PKC, strongly inhibited IL-2R alpha and NF.kappa B activation.
The addition of either TNF alpha or IL-2 partially recovered cyclosporin A-induced IL-2R alpha inhibition, but only TNF alpha completely recovered NF.kappa B activation.
Arrested development : understanding v-abl.
The protein tyrosine kinase activity of the v-abl oncogene has been demonstrated to subvert the normal second messenger systems used by lymphoid cells for growth and differentiation.
Transformation of bone marrow with the Abelson murine leukemia virus results in the appearance of B cell lineage cells arrested at the pre-B cell stage.
Recent reports have characterized these cells expressing high v-abl kinase activity as deficient in detectable NF-kappaB DNA binding activity and low level RAG gene expression.
Two groups of U937 promonocytic cells were obtained by limiting dilution cloning which differed strikingly in their ability to support human immunodeficiency virus 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- replication.
`` Plus '' clones replicated the virus efficiently, whereas `` minus '' clones did not.
Stimulation of plus clones liberated the classical p50-p65 complex from cytoplasmic pools, whereas minus clones produced an apparently novel, faster-migrating complex, as judged by electrophoretic mobility shift assays.
It is surprising that the faster-migrating complex was composed also of p50 and p65.
However, the p65 subunit was COOH-terminally truncated, as shown by immunoprecipitation.
The truncation resulted from limited proteolysis of p65 during cellular extraction which released particular lysosomal serine proteases, such as elastase, cathepsin G, and proteinase 3.
These specific proteases are coordinately expressed and were present exclusively in the minus U937 clones, but not in the plus clones, as demonstrated in the case of cathepsin G..
In addition, these proteases were detected in certain subclones of THP-1 and HL-60 cells and in primary monocytes, in each case correlating with the truncated from of p65.
We demonstrate in vitro cleavage of p65 by purified elastase and cathepsin G..
The data also demonstrate that special precautions must be taken when making extracts from myelo-monocytic cells.
Activation of NF-kappa B in vivo is regulated by multiple phosphorylations.
The activation of nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- in intact cells is mechanistically not well understood.
Therefore we investigated the modifications imposed on NF-kappa B/I kappa B components following stimulation and show that the final step of NF-kappa B induction in vivo involves phosphorylation of several members of the NF-kappa B/I kappa B protein families.
In HeLa cells as well as in B cells, TNF-alpha rapidly induced nuclear translocation primarily of p50-p65, but not of c-rel.
Both NF-kappa B precursors and I kappa B alpha became strongly phosphorylated with the same kinetics.
In addition to the inducible phosphorylation after stimulation, B lymphocytes containing constitutive nuclear NF-kappa B revealed constitutively phosphorylated p65 and I kappa B alpha.
Phosphorylation was accompanied by induced processing of the precursors p100 and p105 and by degradation of I kappa B alpha.
As an in vitro model we show that phosphorylation of p105 impedes its ability to interact with NF-kappa B, as has been shown before for I kappa B alpha.
In fact, cellular NF-kappa B activity was phosphorylation-dependent and the DNA binding activity of p65-containing NF-kappa B was enhanced by phosphorylation in vitro.
Furthermore, we found that the induction by hydrogen peroxide of NF-kappa B translocation to the nucleus, which is assumed to be triggered by reactive oxygen intermediates, also coincided with incorporation of phosphate into the same subunits that were modified after stimulation by TNF-alpha.
T cells from renal cell carcinoma patients exhibit an abnormal pattern of kappa B-specific DNA-binding activity : a preliminary report.
We report that T cells from RCC patients have two alterations in kappa B motif-specific DNA-binding activity.
The first alteration involves the constitutive expression of substantial kappa B-binding activity in nuclear extracts, which was observed in the electrophoretic mobility shift assay.
The magnitude of kappa B activity in unstimulated patient T cells was similar to that observed in T cells from normal individuals that had been activated in vitro.
On the basis of Western blotting experiments using antibodies to kappa B/Rel family proteins, the kappa B-binding activity constitutively expressed in T cells from RCC patients is composed mostly of the NF-kappa B1 -LRB- p50 -RRB- subunit.
The second abnormality in kappa B-binding activity in T cells from these patients is that RelA, a member of the Rel homology family which is part of the normal NF-kappa B complex, was not induced in the nucleus following activation.
Western blotting analysis did not detect any RelA in nuclear extracts either before or after stimulation of T cells.
-LSB- An overexpression of retinoic acid receptor alpha blocks myeloid cell differentiation at the promyelocyte stage -RSB-.
Retinoic acid -LRB- RA -RRB-, a vitamin A derivative, exerts a wide range of biological effects related to cell proliferation and differentiation.
RARs are members of the steroid/thyroid hormone receptor superfamily and exhibit a molecular structure that possess discrete DNA-binding and RA -LRB- ligand -RRB- - binding domains.
To make clear the roles of RA and RAR alpha in the normal hematopoiesis, I have introduced the construct of human RAR alpha -LRB- hRAR alpha -RRB- into murine bone marrow cells with retroviral vector, and selected infected cells with drug resistant marker -LRB- Neo -LRB- r -RRB- -RRB- cultured on the stroma cell line -LRB- PA6-neo -RRB-, and analyzed the behavior of infected cells.
All of procedure were done in vitro.
Furthermore, these immature cells differentiated terminally into mature granulocytes by adding with RA -LRB- 10 -LRB- -6 -RRB- M -RRB-.
RAR alpha infected cells were also able to differentiate into mature macrophages in the both of long term culture and IL3 colony.
An active v-abl protein tyrosine kinase blocks immunoglobulin light-chain gene rearrangement.
Lymphoid cells transformed by Abelson murine leukemia virus have provided one of the classic models for study of early B-cell development and immunoglobulin rearrangement.
To test this hypothesis, light-chain gene structure was examined in pre-B cells transformed by temperature-sensitive mutants of the Abelson virus and in derivatives that survive at the nonpermissive temperature because they express a human BCL-2 gene.
Our studies reveal that inactivation of the v-abl protein tyrosine kinase triggers high-frequency rearrangement of kappa and lambda light-chain genes.
These events are accompanied by marked increases in the expression of RAG-1 and RAG-2 RNAs.
These increases occur in the absence of protein synthesis but are dependent on inactivation of the v-abl protein tyrosine kinase.
As documented in the accompanying paper -LRB- Klug et al., this issue -RRB-, an active v-abl protein also suppresses the activity of NF-kappa B/rel and expression controlled by the kappa intron enhancer.
DNA-binding studies of the Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen 2 -LRB- EBNA-2 -RRB- : evidence for complex formation by latent membrane protein gene promoter-binding proteins in EBNA-2-positive cell lines.
The Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- nuclear antigen 2 -LRB- EBNA-2 -RRB- protein is essential for the immortalization of human primary B cells by EBV.
EBNA-2 trans-activates cellular and viral genes like CD23, c-fgr, latent membrane protein 1 -LRB- LMP1 -RRB- and terminal protein 1 -LRB- TP1 -RRB-.
EBNA-2 is able to trans-activate the expression of the LMP gene in several cell lines.
Various reports have delineated the cis-acting elements of the LMP promoter through which EBNA-2 mediates trans-activation.
We determined that the protein-binding region on the LMP promoter was within a 42 bp fragment encompassing nucleotides -135 to -176 relative to the LMP transcriptional start site.
None of the DNA fragments investigated indicated interaction of EBNA-2 with the DNA via protein-protein interactions.
No significant differences between EBNA-2-positive and EBNA-2-negative nuclear extracts could be seen in the gel retardation assay under conditions that clearly showed binding of EBNA-2A to the TP1 promoter.
However, analysis of sucrose gradient fractions in the gel retardation assay provided evidence that the LMP promoter-binding proteins form a complex of higher M -LRB- r -RRB- in EBNA-2-positive cell extracts.
These complexes were destroyed by detergent.
Functional Myc-Max heterodimer is required for activation-induced apoptosis in T cell hybridomas.
Previous studies using antisense oligonucleotides implicated the c-Myc protein in the phenomenon of activation-induced apoptosis.
This role for c-Myc in apoptosis is now confirmed in studies using a dominant negative form of its heterodimeric binding partner, Max, which we show here inhibits activation-induced apoptosis.
Further, coexpression of a reciprocally mutant Myc protein capable of forming functional heterodimers with the mutant Max can compensate for the dominant negative activity and restore activation-induced apoptosis.
Identification of a region which directs the monocytic activity of the colony-stimulating factor 1 -LRB- macrophage colony-stimulating factor -RRB- receptor promoter and binds PEBP2/CBF -LRB- AML1 -RRB-.
The receptor for the macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- or colony-stimulating factor 1 -LSB- CSF-1 -RSB- -RRB- is expressed from different promoters in monocytic cells and placental trophoblasts.
We have demonstrated that the monocyte-specific expression of the CSF-1 receptor is regulated at the level of transcription by a tissue-specific promoter whose activity is stimulated by the monocyte/B-cell-specific transcription factor PU .1 -LRB- D.-E. Zhang, C.J.Hetherington, H.-M. Chen, and D.G.Tenen, Mol.Cell. Biol .14:373 -381, 1994 -RRB-.
Here we report that the tissue specificity of this promoter is also mediated by sequences in a region II -LRB- bp -88 to - 59 -RRB-, which lies 10 bp upstream from the PU.1-binding site.
When analyzed by DNase footprinting, region II was protected preferentially in monocytic cells.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays confirmed that region II interacts specifically with nuclear proteins from monocytic cells.
Two gel shift complexes -LRB- Mono A and Mono B -RRB- were formed with separate sequence elements within this region.
Promoter constructs with mutations in these sequence elements were no longer expressed specifically in monocytes.
Furthermore, multimerized region II sequence elements enhanced the activity of a heterologous thymidine kinase promoter in monocytic cells but not other cell types tested.
Enhanced responsiveness to nuclear factor kappa B contributes to the unique phenotype of simian immunodeficiency virus variant SIVsmmPBj14.
Infection with a variant of simian immunodeficiency virus, SIVsmmPBj14, leads to severe acute disease in macaques.
This study was designed to investigate the functional significance of previously described mutations in the viral long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- and to elucidate their contribution to the unique phenotype of SIVsmmPBj14.
LTR-directed transcription was measured by using luciferase reporter constructs that were transiently transfected into cultured cells.
In a wide range of cell types, the basal transcriptional activity of the LTR from SIVsmmPBj14 was found to be 2 - to 4.5-fold higher than that of an LTR from a non-acutely pathogenic strain.
These LTRs differ by five point mutations and a 22-bp duplication in SIVsmmPBj14, which includes a nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF kappa B -RRB- site.
Transcriptional differences between these LTRs were further enhanced by two - to threefold upon treatment of cells with phorbol ester or tumor necrosis factor alpha or by cotransfection with plasmids expressing NF kappa B subunits.
Finally, infectious virus stocks that were isogenic except for the LTR were generated.
The LTR from SIVsmmPBj14 was found to confer an increase in the kinetics of virus replication in cultured cells.
Inclusion of this LTR in recombinant SIVs also resulted in a two - to threefold rise in the extent of cellular proliferation that was induced in quiescent simian peripheral blood mononuclear cells.
Functions of glutathione and glutathione disulfide in immunology and immunopathology.
Even a moderate increase in the cellular cysteine supply elevates the intracellular glutathione -LRB- GSH -RRB- and glutathione disulfide -LRB- GSSG -RRB- levels and potentiates immunological functions of lymphocytes in vitro.
At low GSSG levels, T cells can not optimally activate the immunologically important transcription factor NF kappa B, whereas high GSSG levels inhibit the DNA binding activity of NF kappa B..
The effects of GSSG are antagonized by reduced thioredoxin -LRB- TRX -RRB-.
These redox-regulated enzymes trigger signal cascades for NF kappa B activation and transduce signals from the T cell antigen receptor, from CD4 and CD8 molecules, and from the IL-2 receptor beta-chain.
The effector phase of cytotoxic T cell responses and IL-2-dependent functions are inhibited even by a partial depletion of the intracellular GSH pool.
Distinct DNase-I hypersensitive sites are associated with TAL-1 transcription in erythroid and T-cell lines.
The tal-1 gene, frequently activated in human T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia -LRB- T-ALL -RRB-, is expressed in the erythroid, megakaryocytic, and mast cell lineages during normal hematopoiesis.
To gain further insight into the molecular mechanisms that control tal-1 expression, we investigated tal-1 chromatin structure in erythroid/megakaryocytic cell lines and in T-cell lines either with or without tal-1 rearrangements.
Tal-1 transcription was shown to be monoallelic in Jurkat, a T-cell line that expresses tal-1 in the absence of apparent genomic alteration of the locus.
Five major DNase-I hypersensitive sites -LRB- HS -RRB- were mapped in the tal-1 locus.
HS I, IV, and V were exclusively observed in the erythroid/megakaryocytic cell lines that express tal-1 from the promoters 1a and 1b.
HS III was weak in HEL and Jurkat, and greatly enhanced in DU528, a T-cell line that bears a t -LRB- 1 ; 14 -RRB- and initiates tal-1 transcription within exon 4.
One gene, two transcripts : isolation of an alternative transcript encoding for the autoantigen La/SS-B from a cDNA library of a patient with primary Sjogrens' syndrome.
A cDNA library was prepared from peripheral blood lymphocytes of an autoimmune patient with primary Sjogrens' syndrome.
The cDNA library was screened with the patients own autoimmune serum being monospecific for the nuclear autoantigen La/SS-B.
Thereby an alternative type of La mRNA was identified that differed from the known La mRNA due to an exchange of the exon 1.
Sequencing of the genomic region between the exons 1 and 2 showed that the alternative 5' - end is a part of the intron.
In addition, the presence of an alternative promoter site, which exists within the intron downstream of the exon 1, became evident.
In consequence, the alternative La mRNA is the result of a promoter switching combined with an alternative splicing mechanism.
Erythropoietin-dependent induction of hemoglobin synthesis in a cytokine-dependent cell line M-TAT.
M-TAT is a cytokine-dependent cell line with the potential to differentiate along the erythroid and megakaryocytic lineages.
We cultured M-TAT cells long term -LRB- > 1 year -RRB- in the continuous presence of erythropoietin -LRB- EPO -RRB-, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB-, or stem cell factor -LRB- SCF -RRB-.
These long term cultures are referred to as M-TAT/EPO, M-TAT/GM-CSF, and M-TAT/SCF cells, respectively.
Hemoglobin concentration and gamma-globin and erythroid delta-aminolevulinate synthase mRNA levels were significantly higher in M-TAT/EPO cells than in M-TAT/GM-CSF cells.
When the supplemented cytokine was switched from GM-CSF to EPO, hemoglobin synthesis in M-TAT/GM-CSF cells increased rapidly -LRB- within 5 h -RRB-, and the level of GATA-1 mRNA increased.
Thus, erythroid development of M-TAT cells is promoted by EPO and suppressed by GM-CSF.
HIV-1 Nef leads to inhibition or activation of T cells depending on its intracellular localization.
Nef of primate lentiviruses is required for viremia and progression to AIDS in monkeys.
Negative, positive, and no effects of Nef have also been reported on viral replication in cells.
To reconcile these observations, we expressed a hybrid CD8-Nef protein in Jurkat cells.
Two opposite phenotypes were found, which depended on the intracellular localization of Nef.
Expressed in the cytoplasm or on the cell surface, the chimera inhibited or activated early signaling events from the T cell antigen receptor.
Activated Jurkat cells died by apoptosis, and only cells with mutated nef genes expressing truncated Nefs survived, which rendered Nef nonfunctional.
These mutations paralleled those in other viral strains passaged in vitro.
LMP-1 activates NF-kappa B by targeting the inhibitory molecule I kappa B alpha.
LMP-1, an Epstein-Barr virus membrane protein expressed during latent infection, has oncogenic properties, as judged from its ability to transform B lymphocytes and rodent fibroblasts.
LMP-1 induces the expression of bcl2, an oncogene which protects cells from apoptosis, as well as of genes encoding other proteins involved in cell regulation and growth control.
NF-kappa B, a transcription factor controlling the expression of genes involved in cell activation and growth control, has been shown to be activated by LMP-1.
I kappa B alpha is selectively modified in LMP-1-expressing B cells.
A phosphorylated form of I kappa B alpha and increased protein turnover-degradation correlate with increased NF-kappa B nuclear translocation.
This results in increased transcription of NF-kappa B-dependent-genes, including those encoding p105 and I kappa B alpha -LRB- MAD3 -RRB-.
Identification of the pathways activated by LMP-1 to result in posttranslational modifications of I kappa B alpha will aid in determining the role of this virus-host cell protein interaction in Epstein-Barr virus-mediated oncogenesis.
The regulation of HIV by retinoic acid correlates with cellular expression of the retinoic acid receptors.
OBJECTIVES : To analyze the effect of retinoic acids -LRB- RA -RRB- on HIV-1 expression and correlate this effect with expression levels of RA receptors -LRB- RARs -RRB- in T-lymphoid and monocytoid cell lines.
DESIGN AND METHODS : The effect of all-trans and 9-cis RA on HIV-1 production in T-lymphoid -LRB- H9, CEM -RRB- and monocytoid -LRB- U937,THP-1 -RRB- cell lines was measured during acute and chronic infection.
The expression levels of human RAR alpha -LRB- hRAR alpha, receptor for all-trans RA -RRB- and the human retinoid-X receptor alpha -LRB- hRXR alpha receptor for 9-cis RA -RRB- were determined by Northern blot analysis.
RESULTS : Both all-trans and 9-cis RA inhibited virus replication in HIV-1 IIIB-infected monocytoid cells, in the presence and absence of the co-stimulatory agent phorbol myristate acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB-.
The retinoids had weak or no stimulatory effects on HIV production by T-cell lines.
HIV production by PMA-stimulated T-cell lines was inhibited by these retinoids.
The 9-cis RA was generally more effective than all-trans RA in inhibiting HIV production and in combination generally more effective than the single agents alone.
Human RAR alpha was expressed in H9, U937 and THP-1 cells, but almost undetectable in CEM cells.
Human RXR alpha was significantly expressed in U937 and THP-1 cells, weakly expressed in H9 cells and not detectable in CEM cells.
After stimulation by PMA, RXR alpha expression increased in H9 and U937 cells but not in CEM cells.
Human RAR alpha expression was unchanged in H9 and CEM cells, and elevated in U937 cells, after PMA stimulation.
CONCLUSION : The effect of RA on HIV-1 expression was cell-type-dependent and partially correlated with cellular expression of RARs.
Identification of human TR2 orphan receptor response element in the transcriptional initiation site of the simian virus 40 major late promoter -LSB- published erratum appears in J Biol Chem 1995 Nov 3 ; 270 -LRB- 44 -RRB- :26721 -RSB-.
A DNA response element -LRB- TR2RE-SV40 -RRB- for the TR2 orphan receptor, a member of the steroid-thyroid hormone receptor superfamily, has been identified in the simian virus 40 -LRB- SV40 -RRB- +55 region -LRB- nucleotide numbers 368-389, 5' - GTTAAGGTTCGTAGGTCATGGA-3' -RRB-.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assay, using in vitro translated TR2 orphan receptor with a molecular mass of 67 kilodaltons, showed a specific binding with high affinity -LRB- dissociation constant = 9 nM -RRB- for this DNA sequence.
DNA-swap experiments using chloramphenicol acetyl-transferase assay demonstrated that androgen can suppress the transcriptional activities of SV40 early promoter via the interaction between this TR2RE-SV40 and the chimeric receptor AR/TR2/AR with the DNA-binding domain of the TR2 orphan receptor flanked by the N-terminal and androgen-binding domains of the androgen receptor.
In addition, this TR2RE-SV40 can function as a repressor to suppress the transcriptional activities of both SV40 early and late promoters.
Effects of glucocorticoids on transcription factor activation in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells.
The interaction of the transcription factors, activator protein-1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB-, nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF kappa B -RRB-, and cAMP-responsive element binding protein -LRB- CREB -RRB- with DNA and glucocorticoid receptors -LRB- GR -RRB- was analyzed in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells by gel mobility shift assays.
TNF-alpha, IL-1 beta and phorbol myristate acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- treatment increased AP-1 and NF kappa B DNA binding by up to 200 % but decreased CREB binding -LRB- 38 % -RRB- over a 60-min time course.
Dexamethasone produced a rapid and sustained increase in glucocorticoid response element binding and a concomitant 40-50 % decrease in AP-1, NF kappa B, and CREB DNA binding that was blocked by combined dexamethasone and cytokine or PMA treatment.
These latter effects were due to increases in the nuclear localization of GR, not to reduced amounts of the other transcription factors.
Isolation of cDNA clones for 42 different Kruppel-related zinc finger proteins expressed in the human monoblast cell line U-937.
To study the complexity and structural characteristics of zinc finger proteins expressed during human hematopoiesis and to isolate novel regulators of blood cell development, a degenerate oligonucleotide probe specific for a consensus zinc finger peptide domain was used to isolate 63 cDNA clones for Kruppel-related zinc finger genes from the human monoblast cell line U-937.
By extensive nucleotide sequence and Northern blot analysis, these cDNA clones were found to originate from approximately 42 different genes -LRB- HZF 1-42 -RRB- of which only 8 have previously been described.
Northern blot analysis showed that a majority of these genes were expressed at comparable levels in U-937 and HeLa cells.
Detailed structural analysis of the first 12 cDNAs -LRB- HZF 1-10 -RRB- and a partial characterization of HZF 11-42 revealed that a common feature of human Kruppel-related zinc finger proteins is the presence of tandem arrays of zinc fingers ranging in number from 3 to over 20 that are preferentially located in the carboxy-terminal regions of the proteins.
In addition, several novel KRAB-containing zinc finger genes and a novel conserved sequence element were identified.
Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II downregulates both calcineurin and protein kinase C-mediated pathways for cytokine gene transcription in human T cells.
Engagement of the T cell receptor for antigen activates phospholipase C resulting in an increase in intracellular free calcium concentration -LRB- -LSB- Ca2 + -RSB- i -RRB- and activation of protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB-.
Increased -LSB- Ca2 + -RSB- i activates Ca2 + / calmodulin-dependent kinases including the multifunctional Ca2 + / calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II -LRB- CaM-K II -RRB-, as well as calcineurin, a type 2B protein phosphatase.
Recent studies have identified calcineurin as a key enzyme for interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -2 and IL-4 promoter activation.
We have used mutants of these kinases and phosphatases -LRB- gamma B * CaM-K and delta CaM-AI, respectively -RRB- to explore their relative role in cytokine gene transcription and their interactions with PKC-dependent signaling systems.
gamma B * CaM-K and delta CaM-AI, known to exhibit constitutive Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - independent activity, were cotransfected -LRB- alone or in combination -RRB- in Jurkat T cells with a plasmid containing the intact IL-2 promoter driving the expression of the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene.
Cotransfection of gamma B * CaM-K with the IL-2 promoter construct downregulated its transcription in response to stimulation with ionomycin and phorbol myristate acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB-.
The inhibitory effect of CaM-K II on IL-2 promoter was associated with decreased transcription of its AP-1 and NF-AT transactivating pathways.
Under the same conditions, delta CaM-AI superinduced IL-2 promoter activity -LRB- approximately twofold increase -RRB-.
When both mutants were used in combination, gamma B * CaM-K inhibited the induction of the IL-2 promoter by delta CaM-AI.
Similar results were obtained when a construct containing the IL-4 promoter also was used.
gamma B * CaM-K also downregulated the activation of AP-1 in response to transfection with a constitutively active mutant of PKC or stimulation with PMA.
Control of I kappa B-alpha proteolysis by site-specific, signal-induced phosphorylation.
I kappa B-alpha inhibits transcription factor NF-kappa B by retaining it in the cytoplasm.
Various stimuli, typically those associated with stress or pathogens, rapidly inactivate I kappa B-alpha.
This liberates NF-kappa B to translocate to the nucleus and initiate transcription of genes important for the defense of the organism.
Activation of NF-kappa B correlates with phosphorylation of I kappa B-alpha and requires the proteolysis of this inhibitor.
When either serine-32 or serine-36 of I kappa B-alpha was mutated, the protein did not undergo signal-induced phosphorylation or degradation, and NF-kappa B could not be activated.
To evaluate this possibility, we examined in vitro the effects of two types of antioxidant molecules in terms of inhibition of HIV replication in monocytes, one of the main reservoirs of HIV, and also in terms of modulation of the immune competence as measured by PBMC proliferation.
We tested the effects of BHA, a phenolic, lipid-soluble, chain-breaking antioxidant, and NAC, a known glutathione precursor with some direct free-radical scavenging properties as well, on the regulation of HIV-1 expression in latently infected U1 cells and in productively and chronically infected U937 cells.
Both antioxidants inhibited TNF - or PMA-induced NF-kappa B activity in U1 cells, as well as the sustained NF-kappa B activity permanently induced by the virus itself in chronically HIV-infected U937 cells.
This resulted in only a partial inhibition of TNF - or PMA - induced HIV replication in U1 cells, and no detectable effect on HIV replication in chronically infected U937 cells.
Another limitation is that antioxidant concentrations high enough to block NK-kappa B activation were shown to have a suppressive effect on immune functions in vitro, because NAC and BHA blocked IL-2-induced PBMC proliferation.
These data warrant prudence in the design of antioxidant-based therapies aimed at suppressing HIV replication.
Signals transduced through the CD4 molecule on T lymphocytes activate NF-kappa B..
We have demonstrated that native envelope glycoproteins of HIV-1, gp160 can induce activation of the transcription factor, NF-kappa B..
The stimulatory effects of gp160 are mediated through the CD4 molecule, since pretreatment with soluble CD4 abrogates its activity.
The gp160-induced NF-kappa B complex consists of p65, p50 and c-rel proteins.
The stimulatory effect of gp160 on NF-kappa B activation is protein synthesis independent, is dependent upon protein tyrosine phosphorylation, and abrogated by inhibitors of protein kinase C..
Role of HIV-1 Nef expression in activation pathways in CD4 + T cells.
The role of the human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- Nef protein in T cell activation pathways was investigated using a Jurkat CD4 + cell line stably transfected with a Nef expression vector.
Secretion of IL-2 and TNF-alpha, surface expression of IL-2R, and DNA-binding activity of NF-kappa B and AP-1 -LRB- Fos/Jun -RRB- complex in response to phorbol myristate acetate, TNF-alpha, or immobilized antibodies to CD3 were monitored.
These parameters were not modified by Nef expression in Jurkat cells, whereas stimulation with the same stimuli resulted in partial inhibition of LTR activation in Nef + Jurkat cells.
This inhibition was not mediated through Nef phosphorylation on Thr-15 or GTP-binding activity because mutations in critical sites did not alter this inhibition.
Analysis of truncated LTRs confirmed that inhibition of LTR activation was not mediated through NF-kappa B-binding activity but through the region containing the negative responding elements -LRB- NREs -RRB-.
A low NM23.H1 gene expression identifying high malignancy human melanomas.
NM23 was identified in a system of murine melanoma cell lines, in which an inverse relationship was found between NM23 expression and metastatic ability.
In a human malignant melanoma study NM23 expression was found to be significantly lower in metastases that developed less than 24 months after diagnosis of the primary tumours.
The present paper studies the expression of the NM23.H1 gene in cell lines which derive from primary or metastatic human malignant melanomas in relation to staging, infiltration degree, lymphocytic infiltration, cell morphology, cell pigmentation, karyotype, and disease-free survival.
The level of mRNA expression of the NM23 gene is significantly lower in cell lines that derive from more infiltrating primary melanomas than in cell lines obtained from less infiltrating tumours.
Moreover, cell lines derived from tumours of patients with a disease-free survival of more than 24 months -LRB- 24-58 months -RRB- express the NM23 gene at higher levels than cell lines obtained from melanomas of patients with a disease-free survival of less than 24 months -LRB- 6-15 months -RRB-.
Mapping of the interaction site of the defective transcription factor in the class II major histocompatibility complex mutant cell line clone-13 to the divergent X2-box.
We have previously described a mutant B lymphoblastoid cell line, Clone-13, that expresses HLA-DQ in the absence of HLA-DR and - DP.
A series of hybrid DRA/DQB reporter constructs was generated to further map the relevant cis-elements in this system.
Insertion of oligonucleotides spanning the DQB X-box -LRB- but not the DQB-W region or the DQB Y-box -RRB- upstream of -141 in a DRA reporter plasmid rescued expression to nearly wild-type levels.
Substitution promoters were then generated where the entire X-box, or only the X1 - or X2-boxes of HLA-DRA were replaced with the analogous regions of HLA-DQB.
The DQB X2-box was able to restore expression to the silent DRA reporter construct.
Moreover, replacement of the DQB X2-box with the DRA X2-box markedly diminished the activity of the DQB promoter in the mutant cell.
None of the hybrid reporter constructs were defective when transfected into the wild-type, HLA-DR / - DQ positive parental cell line, Jijoye.
-LSB- Regulation of transcription of the interleukin-2 gene in B-lymphocytes -RSB-.
Since most B cell clones immortalized with EBV virus can be induced to produce interleukin-2, a typical T cell cytokine, we studied the role of different elements of the IL-2 promoter in such clones by transfection.
It was found, in particular, that the element TCEd, which binds the transcription factor NF-kB, is very active in all three B clones tested.
This element has no activity in T cells of the Jurkat line.
The NFATd element, which binds the transcription factor NFAT-1 and is very active in T cells, is only weakly active in one B clone and not at all in another.
Different elements thus contribute to IL-2 promoter activity in different cells.
ERP, a new member of the ets transcription factor/oncoprotein family : cloning, characterization, and differential expression during B-lymphocyte development.
The ets gene family encodes a group of proteins which function as transcription factors under physiological conditions and, if aberrantly expressed, can cause cellular transformation.
We have recently identified two regulatory elements in the murine immunoglobulin heavy-chain -LRB- IgH -RRB- enhancer, pi and microB, which exhibit striking similarity to binding sites for ets-related proteins.
We have cloned the gene for a new ets-related transcription factor, ERP -LRB- ets-related protein -RRB-, from the murine pre-B cell line BASC 6C2 and from mouse lung tissue.
The ERP protein contains a region of high homology with the ETS DNA-binding domain common to all members of the ets transcription factor/oncoprotein family.
Three additional smaller regions show homology to the ELK-1 and SAP-1 genes, a subgroup of the ets gene family that interacts with the serum response factor.
Full-length ERP expresses only negligible DNA-binding activity by itself.
At least three ERP-related transcripts are expressed in a variety of tissues.
However, within the B-cell lineage, ERP is highly expressed primarily at early stages of B-lymphocyte development, and expression declines drastically upon B-cell maturation, correlating with the enhancer activity of the IgH pi site.
NF-kappa B-dependent and - independent pathways of HIV activation in a chronically infected T cell line.
J delta K cells were isolated as a chronically infected survivor cell line, following infection of Jurkat CD4 + T cells with dl-NF, a mutated strain of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- containing a deletion of the long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- NF-kappa B sites.
J delta K cells exhibited very low levels of constitutive HIV production.
HIV-1 expression was activated from J delta K cells by treatment with phorbol myristate acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB-, sodium butyrate -LRB- NaB -RRB-, or hexamethylene bisacetamide -LRB- HMBA -RRB-, but not tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB-, confirming the role of NF-kappa B in mediating TNF-alpha induction of HIV transcription.
Association of alterations in NF-kappa B moieties with HIV type 1 proviral latency in certain monocytic cells.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- replication is controlled by a complex array of virally encoded and cellular proteins.
A wide spectrum of levels of HIV-1 expression have been demonstrated in various cells, both in cell culture and in vivo.
It is now demonstrated that HIV-1 proviral latency in the monocytic cell line U1, in which only extremely low levels of HIV-1 expression are detected in the baseline unstimulated state, is associated with alterations in nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- moieties demonstrated in these cells by electrophoretic mobility shift assays -LRB- EMSAs -RRB- and in situ UV cross-linking studies.
This pattern of NF-kappa B-related moieties differs from the latently infected T lymphocytic cell line ACH-2, and from the U937 monocytic line, the parental cell line of the U1 cellular clone.
Protein kinase C is not a downstream effector of p21ras in activated T cells.
The aim of this present study was to investigate the role of protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB-, downstream of p21ras, in activating interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- gene expression.
It has been reported that PKC is an effector of p21ras in T cells.
Data is presented, using the potent and selective PKC inhibitor Ro 31-8425 and transient expression of a constitutively active ras mutant, which clearly shows that PKC is not downstream of p21ras in the induction of NF-AT and AP-1 transcriptional activity and in the expression of IL-2 in human Jurkat T cells.
Reporter gene experiments demonstrated that NF-kappa B transcriptional activity is not affected by expression of activated p21ras.
The signaling pathways involving PKC activation, calcium mobilization and ras activation combine to provide the necessary components for production of IL-2 during T cell activation.
Biphasic control of nuclear factor-kappa B activation by the T cell receptor complex : role of tumor necrosis factor alpha.
The regulation of nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappa B activation by the T cell receptor -LRB- TcR -RRB- / CD3 complex in primary human T cells has been studied at various times after activation.
Only p50 NF-kappa B protein bound the kappa B element of interleukin-2 receptor -LRB- IL-2R -RRB- alpha chain promoter on resting T cells.
However, immediately after TcR/CD3 cross-linking -LRB- after approximately 1 h ; immediate -RRB- binding of p50.p65 heterodimers was observed.
p50.c-rel heterodimers were also detected bound to this sequence at early time points -LRB- 7-16 h ; early -RRB-, and both remained active at later time points -LRB- 40 h ; late -RRB- after activation.
This regulation takes place mainly at the level of nuclear translocation of p65 and c-rel, at immediate and early time points.
Activation also induced c-rel and p105/p50 mRNA synthesis, but not p65 mRNA whose expression was constitutive.
Interestingly, all those early and late events, but not the immediate ones, were inhibited by a neutralizing anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- monoclonal antibody.
Similarly, cycloheximide prevented the p65 and c-rel translocation and consequent formation of active binding heterodimers, at early and late times.
Cyclosporin A impaired not only early and late, but also immediate events ; however, addition of TNF-alpha prevented all inhibition.
TNF-alpha, therefore, emerges as the main factor responsible for a second phase of NF-kappa B regulation, controlling both translocation of p65 and c-rel, and new mRNA synthesis for c-rel and p105/p50.
Two distinct signalling pathways are involved in the control of the biphasic junB transcription induced by interleukin-6 in the B cell hybridoma 7TD1.
We have measured the level of junB mRNA in the B hybridoma cell line 7TD1, under interleukin-6 -LRB- IL-6 -RRB- stimulation.
IL-6 increases junB mRNA in a biphasic fashion.
At variance, the second peak which has never been reported previously, lasted several hours.
As a consequence of its effect on junB mRNA, IL-6 stimulated, in a biphasic fashion, the nuclear accumulation of the JunB protein.
In this study, we demonstrated that IL-6 regulation occurred exclusively at the transcriptional level and that the bimodal increase of junB mRNA and JunB protein can be accounted for by a biphasic stimulation of junB transcription.
Furthermore, our data point to two major differences between the mechanism of control of the early and the late IL-6-induced junB transcription waves.
First, cycloheximide strongly potentiated the transcription of the second wave, whereas it failed to affect the early-induced burst.
Second, tyrphostin, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, impaired the expression of the first but not the second junB mRNA peak.
Conversely, genistein, another tyrosine kinase inhibitor, totally abolished the expression of the second peak of junB mRNA whereas it did not affect the expression of the first peak.
T-cell functional regions of the human IL-3 proximal promoter.
The human interleukin-3 -LRB- IL-3 -RRB- gene is expressed almost exclusively in activated T cells.
Its expression is regulated at both the transcriptional and post-transcriptional level.
We have previously shown that treatment of Jurkat T cells with phytohemaglutinin -LRB- PHA -RRB- and the phorbol ester, PMA, activated transcription initiation from the IL-3 gene.
To define the regions of the gene required for transcription activation, we generated a series of reporter constructs containing different regions of the IL-3 gene 5' and 3' flanking sequences.
Both positive and negative regulatory elements were identified in the proximal 5' flanking region of the IL-3 gene.
The promoter region between -173 and -60 contained the strongest activating elements.
The transcription factor AP-1 could bind to this positive activator region of the promoter.
We also examined the function of the IL-3 CK-1 / CK-2 elements that are present in many cytokine genes and found that they acted as a repressor of basal level expression when cloned upstream of a heterologous promoter but were also inducible by PMA/PHA.
Distinct roles of the molecular chaperone hsp90 in modulating dioxin receptor function via the basic helix-loop-helix and PAS domains.
The intracellular dioxin receptor mediates signal transduction by dioxin and functions as a ligand-activated transcription factor.
It contains a basic helix-loop-helix -LRB- bHLH -RRB- motif contiguous with a Per-Arnt-Sim -LRB- PAS -RRB- homology region.
In extracts from nonstimulated cells the receptor is recovered in an inducible cytoplasmic form associated with the 90-kDa heat shock protein -LRB- hsp90 -RRB-, a molecular chaperone.
We have reconstituted ligand-dependent activation of the receptor to a DNA-binding form by using the dioxin receptor and its bHLH-PAS partner factor Arnt expressed by in vitro translation in reticulocyte lysate.
Deletion of the PAS domain of the receptor resulted in constitutive dimerization with Arnt.
In line with these observations, reticulocyte lysate but not wheat germ lysate promoted the association of de novo synthesized dioxin receptor with hsp90.
At least two distinct domains of the receptor mediated interaction with hsp90 : the ligand-binding domain located within the PAS region and, surprisingly, the bHLH domain.
Thus, the dioxin receptor system provides a complex and interesting model of the regulation of transcription factors by hsp90.
Characterization of the CD48 gene demonstrates a positive element that is specific to Epstein-Barr virus-immortalized B-cell lines and contains an essential NF-kappa B site.
Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- infection of mature, resting B cells drives them to become lymphoblasts expressing high levels of cell surface molecules, such as CD48, characteristically expressed on normal activated B cells.
Here, we report on the identification of an enhancer element in the CD48 gene which reproducibly confers strong transcriptional activity only in EBV-positive B-lymphoblastoid cell lines.
An NF-kappa B binding site is an essential component of the element but alone is not sufficient to account for the activity or the specificity of the element.
We have detected a specific nuclear protein complex that binds to the element and show that NF-kappa B1 -LRB- p50 -RRB- is a part of this complex.
Platelet-activating factor -LRB- PAF -RRB- positively auto-regulates the expression of human PAF receptor transcript 1 -LRB- leukocyte-type -RRB- through NF-kappa B..
The human platelet-activating factor receptor -LRB- PAFR -RRB- gene is transcribed by two distinct promoters -LRB- promoter 1 and promoter 2 -RRB- to generate two transcripts -LRB- designated as PAFR transcript 1 and PAFR transcript 2 -RRB-, though their open reading frames are identical.
By primer extension analysis to discriminate two transcripts, we found that the levels of PAFR transcript 1 -LRB- leukocyte-type -RRB-, but not PAFR transcript 2 -LRB- tissue-type -RRB-, are upregulated by PAF as well as by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB- in the human stomach cancer cell line -LRB- JR-St cells -RRB- which expresses both functional PAFR transcript 1 and PAFR transcript 2 endogenously.
Functional analysis of the promoter 1 with a transient expression assay using chloramphenicol acetyltransferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- gene as a reporter showed that both PAF and TPA activated the promoter 1 but not the deleted promoter lacking the three consensus binding sites for NF-kappa B located from -571 bp to -459 bp.
The interleukin 2 receptor alpha-chain -LRB- IL-2R alpha -RRB- gene is rapidly and potently induced in T cells in response to mitogenic stimuli.
Previously, an inducible enhancer between nucleotides -299 and -228 that contains NF-kappa B and CArG motifs was identified.
We now report the characterization of a second essential positive regulatory element located between nucleotides -137 and -64 that binds Elf-1 and HMG-I -LRB- Y -RRB-.
This element had maximal activity in lymphoid cells, paralleling the cell type specificity of Elf-1 expression.
Transcription from the IL-2R alpha promoter was inhibited when either the Elf-1 or the HMG-I -LRB- Y -RRB- binding site was mutated.
Coexpression of both proteins activated transcription of the -137 to -64 element in COS-7 cells.
This is the first report of a physical interaction between an Ets family member and NF-kappa B family proteins.
These findings provide significant new insights into the protein-protein and protein-DNA interactions that regulate cell-type-specific and inducible IL-2R alpha gene expression and also have implications for other genes regulated by Elf-1 and NF-kappa B family proteins.
Expression of the Runt domain-encoding PEBP2 alpha genes in T cells during thymic development.
The PEBP2 alpha A and PEBP2 alpha B genes encode the DNA-binding subunit of a murine transcription factor, PEBP2, which is implicated as a T-cell-specific transcriptional regulator.
These two related genes share the evolutionarily conserved region encoding the Runt domain.
PEBP2 alpha B is the murine counterpart of human AML1, which is located at the breakpoints of the 8 ; 21 and 3 ; 21 chromosome translocations associated with acute myeloid leukemia.
Northern -LRB- RNA -RRB- blots of various adult mouse tissues revealed that the levels of expression of both genes were most prominent in the thymus.
Furthermore, transcripts of PEBP2 alpha A and mouse AML1/PEBP2 alpha B were detected in T lymphocytes in the thymuses from day 16 embryos and newborns, as well as 4-week-old adult mice, by in situ hybridization.
The expression of the genes persisted in peripheral lymph nodes of adult mice.
The transcripts were detected in all the CD4 - CD8 -, CD4 + CD8 +, CD4 + CD8 -, and CD4 - CD8 + cell populations.
Transcripts of mouse AML1/PEBP2 alpha B were also detected in day 12 fetal hematopoietic liver and in the bone marrow cells of newborn mice.
The implication of mouse AML1/PEBP2 alpha B expression in hematopoietic cells other than those of T-cell lineage is discussed in relation to myeloid leukemogenesis.
Glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis of human leukemic cells is caused by the repressive function of the glucocorticoid receptor.
However, the events leading from the activated receptor to cell lysis are not understood.
In this study, we show that an activation-deficient glucocorticoid receptor mutant is as effective as the wild-type receptor in repression of AP-1 activity, inhibition of interleukin-2 production, inhibition of c-myc expression and induction of apoptosis.
Furthermore, we show that retinoic acid can also induce apoptosis in these cells through the retinoic acid receptor, whose repressive functions but not target site specificity, are similar to those of the glucocorticoid receptor.
OBF-1, a novel B cell-specific coactivator that stimulates immunoglobulin promoter activity through association with octamer-binding proteins.
Using a genetic screen in yeast, we have isolated B cell-derived cDNAs encoding Oct-binding factor 1 -LRB- OBF-1 -RRB-, a novel protein that specifically associates with Oct-1 and Oct-2.
Biochemical studies demonstrate that OBF-1 has no intrinsic DNA-binding activity and recognizes the POU domains of Oct-1 and Oct-2, but not those of Oct-4 and Oct-6.
The OBF-1 mRNA is expressed in a highly cell-specific manner, being most abundant in B cells and essentially absent in most of the other cells or tissues tested.
Furthermore, expression of OBF-1 in HeLa cells selectively stimulates the activity of a natural immunoglobulin promoter in an octamer site-dependent manner.
Thus, OBF-1 has all the properties expected for a B cell-specific transcriptional coactivator protein.
Expression and genomic configuration of GM-CSF, IL-3, M-CSF receptor -LRB- C-FMS -RRB-, early growth response gene-1 -LRB- EGR-1 -RRB- and M-CSF genes in primary myelodysplastic syndromes.
Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from seventeen patients with primary myelodysplastic syndromes -LRB- MDS -RRB- in advanced stage were enriched for blasts and tested for -LRB- 1 -RRB- karyotype, -LRB- 2 -RRB- genomic configuration and -LRB- 3 -RRB- expression of IL-3, GM-CSF, FMS and EGR-1 genes which are all located on the long arm of chromosome 5.
The expression of the M-CSF gene, that has been recently reassigned to the short arm of chromosome 1 -LRB- lp -RRB-, was also investigated.
The latter issue was investigated by comparing, in 8 cases, constitutive DNA from skin fibroblasts with leukemic DNA.
Eleven of the 17 patients had abnormal karyotypes.
The M-CSF gene was expressed in 6 cases and the FMS and the EGR-1 genes were expressed in 2 of the latter cases.
No germline changes or rearrangements were observed in any of the genes studied.
Regulation of I kappa B alpha and p105 in monocytes and macrophages persistently infected with human immunodeficiency virus.
The mechanisms regulating human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- persistence in human monocytes/macrophages are partially understood.
Persistent HIV infection of U937 monocytic cells results in NF-kappa B activation.
To further delineate the molecular mechanisms involved in the activation of NF-kappa B in HIV-infected monocytes and macrophages, we have focused on the regulation of the I kappa B molecules.
First, we show that persistent HIV infection results in the activation of NF-kappa B not only in monocytic cells but also in macrophages.
In HIV-infected cells, I kappa B alpha protein levels are decreased secondary to enhanced protein degradation.
This parallels the increased I kappa B alpha synthesis secondary to increased I kappa B alpha gene transcription, i.e., increased RNA and transcriptional activity of its promoter-enhancer.
Another protein with I kappa B function, p105, is also modified in HIV-infected cells : p105 and p50 steady-state protein levels are increased as a result of increased synthesis and proteolytic processing of p105.
Transcriptional activity of p105 is also increased in infected cells and is also mediated by NF-kappa B through a specific kappa B motif.
These results demonstrate the existence of a triple autoregulatory loop in monocytes and macrophages involving HIV, p105 and p50, and MAD3, with the end result of persistent NF-kappa B activation and viral persistence.
Furthermore, persistent HIV infection of monocytes and macrophages provides a useful model with which to study concomitant modifications of different I kappa B molecules.
Posttranscriptional regulation of macrophage tissue factor expression by antioxidants.
Tissue factor -LRB- TF -RRB- expression by cells of monocyte/macrophage lineage represents an important mechanism underlying the initiation of fibrin deposition at sites of extravascular inflammation.
The effect of antioxidant treatment on lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- - induced TF expression was examined in murine peritoneal macrophages and human monocytes.
Both pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate, an oxidant scavenger, and N-acetyl-cysteine, a precursor of the endogenous antioxidant glutathione, inhibited stimulation of macrophage procoagulant activity by LPS.
Immunofluorescence studies of human monocytes using polyclonal anti-TF antibody showed that N-acetyl-cysteine treatment prevented the characteristic plasmalemmal localization of TF antigen that occurs in response to LPS.
Western blot analysis showed that N-acetyl-cysteine reduced the accumulation of the 47-kD mature glycoprotein in LPS-treated cells, a finding consistent with the results of the immunofluorescence studies.
Furthermore, these conditions did not result in an accumulation of the less mature forms of TF.
Overexpression of protein kinase C-zeta stimulates leukemic cell differentiation.
A function for protein kinase C-zeta -LRB- PKC-zeta -RRB-, a member of the phorbol ester nonresponsive atypical protein kinase C subfamily, in modulating differentiation was examined in the leukemic U937 cell.
Transfected U937 cells stably overexpressing PKC-zeta displayed a longer doubling time, lower saturation density at confluency, and an increase in adherence to plastic as compared to control cells.
PKC-zeta cells expressed a more differentiated phenotype as assessed by changes in morphology, surface antigen expression, and lysosomal enzyme activities and were distinct from parental U937 cells stimulated to differentiate by exposure to phorbol esters.
In contrast to parental U937 cells, PKC-zeta cells constitutively expressed mRNA transcripts for c-jun and a low mobility AP-1 binding activity.
Thus, PKC-zeta overexpression stimulates a type of phenotypic differentiation that differs significantly from maturation occurring upon activation of other PKC subfamilies induced by phorbol ester treatment.
Epstein-Barr virus replicative gene transcription during de novo infection of human thymocytes : simultaneous early expression of BZLF-1 and its repressor RAZ.
Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- is known to infect B cells and epithelial cells.
We and others have shown that EBV can also infect a subset of thymocytes.
Infection of thymocytes was accompanied by the appearance of linear EBV genome within 8 hr of infection.
Circularization of the EBV genome was not detected.
This is in contrast to the infection in B cells where the genome can circularize within 24 hr of infection.
The appearance of the BamHI ZLF-1 gene product, ZEBRA, by RT-PCR, was observed within 8 hr of infection.
The appearance of a novel fusion transcript -LRB- RAZ -RRB-, which comprised regions of the BZLF-1 locus and the adjacent BRLF-1 locus, was detected by RT-PCR.
ZEBRA protein was also identified in infected thymocytes by immunoprecipitation.
In addition, we demonstrated that the EBNA-1 gene in infected thymocytes was transcribed from the Fp promoter, rather than from the Cp/Wp promoter which is used in latently infected B cells.
Transcripts encoding gp350/220, the major coat protein of EBV, were identified, but we did not find any evidence of transcription from the LMP-2A or EBER-1 loci in infected thymocytes.
Rather, EBV remains in a linear configuration from which replicative genes are transcribed.
Induction of Sp1 phosphorylation and NF-kappa B-independent HIV promoter domain activity in T lymphocytes stimulated by okadaic acid.
In contrast to the purely enhancer-dependent effect of cytokines such as TNF on the activity of the HIV regulatory region -LRB- LTR -RRB-, we observed that okadaic acid -LRB- OKA -RRB- activates HIV transcription through both the enhancer, responding to the factor NF-kappa B, and the promoter domain of the LTR.
The inducibility of HIV LTR-driven luciferase expression constructs in lymphoblastoid cells stimulated by OKA depended on both functional Sp1 binding elements and the ability of the TATA box to bind the protein TBP.
In both transformed and normal lymphocytes, OKA stimulation induced intense phosphorylation of the constitutively expressed Sp1 protein in the nucleus, a property of OKA not shared by TNF, phorbol ester, or PHA and interleukin 2.
Responsiveness of LTR constructs deleted of kappa B elements to HIV Tat expression was increased upon OKA but not TNF stimulation.
The formation of this complex would increase, independently of an in synergy with NF-kappa B, the low basal activity of the HIV LTR observed in normal T lymphocytes.
HIV type 1 protease activation of NF-kappa B within T lymphoid cells.
NF-kappa B is a nuclear protein of the rel oncogene family capable of enhancing transcription of several cellular genes, including IL-2 and the IL-2 receptor, and viral genes transcribed from the HIV-1 LTR.
In this study the effects of HIV protease on NF-kappa B precursor activation were examined in Jurkat T cells by introducing a protease expression vector into the cells.
Increased NF-kappa B activity was observed and this increased activity was blocked by a specific inhibitor of the viral protease.
Viral transcription, as measured using LTR-CAT assays, was only slightly enhanced in the HIV-protease expressing cells, while secretion of IL-2 and expression of the IL-2 receptor were not affected.
The retinoblastoma gene product negatively regulates transcriptional activation mediated by the human cytomegalovirus IE2 protein.
The IE2 gene product of human cytomegalovirus -LRB- HCMV -RRB- is one of a few viral regulatory proteins expressed immediately upon infection of the host cell.
It is a potent transcriptional activator of many viral and cellular promoters.
We found that the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene product -LRB- Rb -RRB- dramatically suppressed this IE2 transactivation of various promoters.
We found by protein-affinity chromatography that Rb in nuclear extracts or produced by in vitro translation directly bound to IE2.
Mouse interleukin-2 receptor alpha gene expression.
Interleukin-1 and interleukin-2 control transcription via distinct cis-acting elements.
We have shown that interleukin-1 -LRB- IL-1 -RRB- and IL-2 control IL-2 receptor alpha -LRB- IL-2R alpha -RRB- gene transcription in CD4-CD8 - murine T lymphocyte precursors.
Here we map the cis-acting elements that mediate interleukin responsiveness of the mouse IL-2R alpha gene using a thymic lymphoma-derived hybridoma -LRB- PC60 -RRB-.
The transcriptional response of the IL-2R alpha gene to stimulation by IL-1 + IL-2 is biphasic.
IL-1 induces a rapid, protein synthesis-independent appearance of IL-2R alpha mRNA that is blocked by inhibitors of NF-kappa B activation.
It also primes cells to become IL-2 responsive and thereby prepares the second phase, in which IL-2 induces a 100-fold further increase in IL-2R alpha transcripts.
Transient transfection experiments show that several elements in the promoter-proximal region of the IL-2R alpha gene contribute to IL-1 responsiveness, most importantly an NF-kappa B site conserved in the human and mouse gene.
IL-2 responsiveness, on the other hand, depends on a 78-nucleotide segment 1.3 kilobases upstream of the major transcription start site.
This segment functions as an IL-2-inducible enhancer and lies within a region that becomes DNase I hypersensitive in normal T cells in which IL-2R alpha expression has been induced.
IL-2 responsiveness requires three distinct elements within the enhancer.
Coupling of a signal response domain in I kappa B alpha to multiple pathways for NF-kappa B activation.
The eukaryotic transcription factor NF-kappa B plays a central role in the induced expression of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and in many aspects of the genetic program mediating normal T-cell activation and growth.
The nuclear activity of NF-kappa B is tightly regulated from the cytoplasmic compartment by an inhibitory subunit called I kappa B alpha.
This cytoplasmic inhibitor is rapidly phosphorylated and degraded in response to a diverse set of NF-kappa B-inducing agents, including T-cell mitogens, proinflammatory cytokines, and viral transactivators such as the Tax protein of human T-cell leukemia virus type 1.
To explore these I kappa B alpha-dependent mechanisms for NF-kappa B induction, we identified novel mutants of I kappa B alpha that uncouple its inhibitory and signal-transducing functions in human T lymphocytes.
Specifically, removal of the N-terminal 36 amino acids of I kappa B alpha failed to disrupt its ability to form latent complexes with NF-kappa B in the cytoplasm.
However, this deletion mutation prevented the induced phosphorylation, degradative loss, and functional release of I kappa B alpha from NF-kappa B in Tax-expressing cells.
Alanine substitutions introduced at two serine residues positioned within this N-terminal regulatory region of I kappa B alpha also yielded constitutive repressors that escaped from Tax-induced turnover and that potently inhibited immune activation pathways for NF-kappa B induction, including those initiated from antigen and cytokine receptors.
In contrast, introduction of a phosphoserine mimetic at these sites rectified this functional defect, a finding consistent with a causal linkage between the phosphorylation status and proteolytic stability of this cytoplasmic inhibitor.
Together, these in vivo studies define a critical signal response domain in I kappa B alpha that coordinately controls the biologic activities of I kappa B alpha and NF-kappa B in response to viral and immune stimuli.
Interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -10 inhibits nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF kappa B -RRB- activation in human monocytes.
IL-10 and IL-4 suppress cytokine synthesis by different mechanisms.
Our previous studies in human monocytes have demonstrated that interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -10 inhibits lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- - stimulated production of inflammatory cytokines, IL-1 beta, IL-6, IL-8, and tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- - alpha by blocking gene transcription.
Using electrophoretic mobility shift assays -LRB- EMSA -RRB-, we now show that, in monocytes stimulated with LPS or TNF alpha, IL-10 inhibits nuclear stimulation of nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF kappa B -RRB-, a transcription factor involved in the expression of inflammatory cytokine genes.
Several other transcription factors including NF-IL-6, AP-1, AP-2, GR, CREB, Oct-1, and Sp-1 are not affected by IL-10.
This selective inhibition by IL-10 of NF kappa B activation occurs rapidly and in a dose-dependent manner and correlates well with IL-10 's cytokine synthesis inhibitory activity in terms of both kinetics and dose responsiveness.
Furthermore, compounds such as tosylphenylalanyl chloromethyl ketone and pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate that are known to selectively inhibit NF kappa B activation block cytokine gene transcription in LPS-stimulated monocytes.
IL-4, another cytokine that inhibits cytokine mRNA accumulation in monocytes, shows little inhibitory effect on LPS-induced NF kappa B activation.
Further examination reveals that, unlike IL-10, IL-4 enhances mRNA degradation and does not suppress cytokine gene transcription.
Activation of transcription by binding of NF-E1 -LRB- YY1 -RRB- to a newly identified element in the first exon of the human DR alpha gene.
A previously unrecognized element, located downstream of the start site of transcription in the first exon of the DR alpha gene, has been defined that enhances promoter activity up to eightfold in a position-dependent manner.
Mutations in this DNA-binding site abolished binding of a nuclear factor in human B cell nuclear extract and decreased the activity of the DR alpha promoter to a basal level.
Significant sequence homology of this element was found in the DNA of the DR beta, DP alpha and - beta, and DQ alpha genes, always located downstream of the transcriptional start site.
The nuclear factor binds to the DR alpha and DP alpha element but not to the element in the DQ alpha gene.
It was identified as NF-E1 -LRB- YY1 -RRB-.
Modulation of transcription factor NF kappa B activity by intracellular glutathione levels and by variations of the extracellular cysteine supply.
HIV-infected individuals and SIV-infected rhesus macaques have, on the average, decreased plasma cysteine and cystine concentrations and decreased intracellular glutathione levels.
We now show that a depletion of intracellular glutathione in a human T cell line -LRB- Molt-4 -RRB- inhibits the activation and nuclear translocation of the transcription factor NF kappa B, whereas incubation with increasing extracellular concentrations of cysteine inhibits the DNA-binding and transactivating activity of NF kappa B..
Expression of Ah receptor -LRB- TCDD receptor -RRB- during human monocytic differentiation.
We have previously found a high expression of human Ah receptor -LRB- TCDD receptor -RRB- mRNA in peripheral blood cells of individuals.
In this paper, the expression of this gene in blood cells was first investigated in fractions of nucleated cells, revealing predominant expression of the Ah receptor gene in the monocyte fraction.
Then the expression levels of AhR mRNA in various hematopoietic cell lines were examined together with those of Arnt and P450IA1.
AhR was expressed at high levels in monocytoid U937, THP1, and HEL/S cells, and at moderate levels in promyelocytic HL60 cells and erythroblastic HEL cells.
However, it was not detected in lymphoid cells MOLT4 -LRB- T cell -RRB- and BALL1 -LRB- B cell -RRB-, nor in K562 erythroblasts.
Furthermore, a specific induction of AhR during monocytic differentiation was investigated in HL60 and HEL cells.
HL60 cells were induced to differentiate toward monocytes-macrophages by incubation with phorbol ester, showing a 5 - to 2-fold increase of AhR mRNA.
The incubation with transforming growth factor beta 1 and 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 resulted in a 5 - to 7-fold increase of AhR mRNA.
The HEL cells also exhibited a similar elevation of AhR mRNA level, when they had differentiated toward monocyte-macrophage cells by these combined inducers, but little change in the mRNA level was observed when the cells were induced to differentiate into other cell types.
Treatment of the differentiated HL60 cells with 3-methylcholanthrene, a ligand of AhR, induced the expression of the P450IA1 gene.
MIP1 alpha nuclear protein -LRB- MNP -RRB-, a novel transcription factor expressed in hematopoietic cells that is crucial for transcription of the human MIP-1 alpha gene.
Murine macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha -LRB- MIP-1 alpha -RRB- and its human equivalent -LRB- GOS19, LD78, or AT464 -RRB- are members of the - C-C family of low-molecular-weight chemokines.
It also induces chemotaxis and inflammatory responses in mature cell types.
Therefore, it is important to understand the mechanisms which control the expression of MIP-1 alpha/GOS19.
Previous work has shown that in Jurkat T cells, a set of widely expressed transcription factors -LRB- the ICK-1 family -RRB- affect the GOS19 promoter.
One member, ICK-1A, behaves as a strong negative regulator.
In this communication, we provide evidence that the pathway of induction in the macrophage cell line U937 is different from that in Jurkat cells.
Furthermore, we show that the ICK-1 binding site does not confer negative regulation in U937 cells.
We provide evidence for an additional binding site, the MIP-1 alpha nuclear protein -LRB- MNP -RRB- site, which overlaps the ICK-1 site.
Interaction of nuclear extracts from various cell lines and tissue with the MNP site leads to the formation of fast-migrating protein-DNA complexes with similar but distinct electrophoretic mobilities.
A mutation of the MNP site which does not abrogate ICK-1 binding inactivates the GOS19 .1 promoter in U937 cells and reduces its activity by fourfold in Jurkat cells.
Activation of pp90rsk and early growth response-1 gene expression by pokeweed mitogen in human B cells.
The present studies have examined the effects of pokeweed mitogen -LRB- PWM -RRB- on the induction of early growth response-1 gene -LRB- EGR-1 -RRB- in normal human B cells.
PWM regulates EGR-1 gene expression by both transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms.
Transient transfection assays with EGR-1 promoter fragments linked to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- gene demonstrated that PWM induced EGR-1 transcription is conferred by the CArG motif -LRB- C C -LSB- AT -RSB- 6GG -RRB- in the EGR-1 promoter.
The results further demonstrated the activation of S6 kinase -LRB- pp90rsk -RRB-, evidenced by phosphorylation of S6 and serum response factor -LRB- SRF -RRB- peptides, in PWM treated B cells.
Abnormal regulation of the IL-2 promoter in lpr CD4-CD8 - T lymphocytes results in constitutive expression of a novel nuclear factor of activated T cells-binding factor.
The inert quality of MRL-Ipr/Ipr -LRB- Ipr -RRB- peripheral CD4-CD8 - -LRB- CD4-8 - -RRB- T cells manifests primarily as an inability to proliferate or produce IL-2 in response to TCR or mitogenic stimulation.
Yet these same cells do initiate early TCR-mediated signaling events, such as generation of inositol phosphates and increased intracellular calcium.
They also display constitutively high levels of p59fyn and CD3 zeta tyrosine phosphorylation.
The generation of second messengers in T cells normally leads to downstream signaling that results in transcriptional activation of the IL-2 gene.
We, therefore, compared the activation state of the IL-2 gene promoter region in freshly isolated and stimulated Ipr CD4-8 - T cells with that of normal T lymphocytes.
Levels of the octamer, NF-kappa B -LRB- p50-p65 heterodimer -RRB-, and AP-1 transcriptional factors are constitutively elevated in freshly isolated Ipr CD4-8 - T cells, consistent with the activated phenotype of these cells.
Upon stimulation with mitogens, formation of the transactivating complex, nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NF-AT -RRB-, occurs with normal kinetics in Ipr CD4-8 - T cells.
Yet, the levels of the activating NF-AT complex never reach those observed in similarly stimulated normal T cells.
Furthermore, nuclear extracts from Ipr CD4-8 - T cells display high levels of a novel specific binding activity at the NF-AT site, which is present at much lower levels in freshly isolated normal T lymphocytes.
Upon mitogenic stimulation, the binding activity of the novel NF-AT-binding factor is rapidly down-regulated in normal T cells, but persists at high levels in Ipr CD4-8 - T cells.
GM-CSF and IL-2 share common control mechanisms in response to costimulatory signals in T cells.
Antigen complexed with major histocompatibility complex class I or II molecules on the surface of antigen presenting cells interacts with the T cell receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- on the surface of T cells and initiates an activation cascade.
So called costimulatory signals, mediated by other cell surface interactions or soluble cytokines produced by antigen presenting cells, are also required for complete T cell activation.
High levels of cytokine gene expression in T cells also required both TCR and costimulatory signals.
The granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor requires sequences in the promoter as well as a powerful enhancer located 3kb upstream to respond to TCR-like signals.
These promoter and enhancer regions are mainly activated by the transcription factor nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB-.
The activation of NFAT by TCR signals has been well described for interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- and IL-4 gene transcription in T cells.
Costimulatory signals, such as activation of the CD28 cell surface molecule on T cells, lead to activation through a distinct region of the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB- promoter.
Human T leukemia virus type 1 -LRB- HTLV-1 -RRB- infects T cells and can lead to increase GM-CSF expression.
We have found that the HTLV-1 transactivator protein, tax, acts as a costimulatory signal for GM-CSF and IL-2 gene transcription, in that it can cooperate with TCR signals to mediate high level gene expression.
Tax activates the GM-CSF promoter through the CK-1 / CD28RE region and also activates nuclear factor-kappa B binding to this region.
However, other transcription factors or coactivators of NF-kappa B are required for tax activation but these remain to be identified.
The CK-1 / CD28RE of GM-CSF shows a high degree of similarity to the IL-2 CD28RE and the IL-3 gene also contains a related region.
Human MHC class II gene transcription directed by the carboxyl terminus of CIITA, one of the defective genes in type II MHC combined immune deficiency.
Type II major histocompatibility complex combined immune deficiency -LRB- type II MHC CID or bare lymphocyte syndrome -RRB- is a congenital immunodeficiency disease characterized by absent MHC class II expression.
Four distinct complementation groups have been identified.
Recently, the defective gene in group II type II MHC CID has been isolated and termed CIITA.
Here, we demonstrate that CIITA is an MHC class II gene-specific transcription activator.
The transcription activation function is provided by the N-terminal acidic domain -LRB- amino acids 26-137 -RRB-, which is experimentally exchangeable with a heterologous viral transcription-activating domain.
The specificity of CIITA for three major MHC class II genes, DR, DQ and DP, is mediated by its remaining C-terminal residues -LRB- amino acids 317-1130 -RRB-.
The transactivation of multiple cis elements, especially S and X2, of the DR alpha proximal promoter in group II CID cells is CIITA dependent.
Identification of two novel regulatory elements within the 5' - untranslated region of the human A gamma-globin gene.
Interaction between the stage selector element -LRB- SSE -RRB- in the proximal gamma-globin promoter and hypersensitivity site 2 in the locus control region partly mediates the competitive silencing of the beta-globin promoter in the fetal developmental stage.
We have now demonstrated that a second SSE-like element in the 5' - untranslated region of the gamma-gene also contributes to this competitive silencing of the beta-gene.
Utilizing transient transfection assays in the fetal erythroid cell line, K562, we have shown that the core enhancer of hypersensitivity site 2 can preferentially interact with the proximal gamma-promoter in the absence of the SSE, completely silencing a linked beta-promoter.
Mutation of a 20-base pair sequence of the gamma-gene 5' - untranslated region -LRB- UTR -RRB- led to derepression of beta-promoter activity.
Fine mutagenesis dissected these activities to different regions of the 5' - UTR.
The stage selector activity was localized to a region centered on nucleotides +13 to +15.
Electromobility shift assays utilizing this sequence demonstrated binding of a fetal and erythroid-specific protein.
MEK1 and the extracellular signal-regulated kinases are required for the stimulation of IL-2 gene transcription in T cells.
TCR engagement stimulates the activation of the protein kinase Raf-1.
Active Raf-1 phosphorylates and activates the mitogen-activated protein -LRB- MAP -RRB- kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase 1 -LRB- MEK1 -RRB-, which in turn phosphorylates and activates the MAP kinases/extracellular signal regulated kinases, ERK1 and ERK2.
Raf-1 activity promotes IL-2 production in activated T lymphocytes.
Expression of constitutively active Raf-1 or MEK1 in Jurkat T cells enhanced the stimulation of IL-2 promoter-driven transcription stimulated by a calcium ionophore and PMA, and together with a calcium ionophore the expression of each protein was sufficient to stimulate NF-AT activity.
Expression of MEK1-interfering mutants inhibited the stimulation of IL-2 promoter-driven transcription and blocked the ability of constitutively active Ras and Raf-1 to costimulate NF-AT activity with a calcium ionophore.
Expression of the MAP kinase-specific phosphatase, MKP-1, which blocks ERK activation, inhibited IL-2 promoter and NF-AT-driven transcription stimulated by a calcium ionophore and PMA, and in addition, MKP-1 neutralized the transcriptional enhancement caused by active Raf-1 and MEK1 expression.
We conclude that the MAP kinase signal transduction pathway consisting of Raf-1, MEK1, and ERK1 and ERK2 functions in the stimulation IL-2 gene transcription in activated T lymphocytes.
The promoter and 5' flanking sequences controlling human B29 gene expression.
The product of the B-cell-specific B29 gene -LRB- B29, Ig beta, CD79b -RRB- is essential for Ig-mediated B-cell activation via the B-cell antigen receptor complex -LRB- BCR -RRB- on human and murine B lymphocytes.
To better understand the regulation of this pivotal gene, we have analyzed the human genomic DNA sequence upstream of the B29 ATG start codon for transcriptional control activity.
The minimal promoter of the human B29 gene is contained within a 193-bp region 5' of these multiple start sites.
This minimal promoter exhibits B-cell-specific activity and contains SP1, ETS, OCT, and IKAROS/LYF -1 transcription factor motifs.
All these motifs are strikingly conserved in sequence and placement relative to the previously characterized murine B29 promoter.
Additional upstream gene segments dramatically affected B29 minimal promoter activity.
A single BCS had little effect either on the minimal B29 promoter or on a heterologous promoter.
Instead, the BCS stimulated transcription by counteracting 5' negative regulatory DNA sequences that block the activity of the B29 minimal promoter in its absence.
Cross-linking of Fc gamma receptors activates HIV-1 long terminal repeat-driven transcription in human monocytes.
Elevation of the levels of circulating immune complexes frequently accompanies HIV-1 infection and is a prognostic indicator of clinical progression from asymptomatic infection to AIDS.
Here we report that cross-linking of Fc gamma RI or Fc gamma RII by adherent human IgG or by specific anti-Fc gamma R mAb activates HIV-1 gene expression in the human monocytic cell line BF24 and increased HIV RNA expression in monocytes from HIV infected patients as assayed by reverse transcription-PCR.
In THP-1 cells, Fc gamma R cross-linking induced NF-kappa B, which is known to bind to the regulatory region of the long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- of HIV-1 and to activate HIV-1 transcription.
Anti-TNF-alpha antibody but not anti-IL-1 beta antibody strongly inhibited both the induction of HIV-1-LTR-driven transcription and the induction of NF-kappa B by Fc gamma R cross-linking.
Inhibition of NF-AT signal transduction events by a dominant-negative form of calcineurin.
An inhibitory, `` dominant-negative, '' form of the calcineurin catalytic -LRB- A -RRB- subunit was prepared, which lacks the calmodulin-binding domain, autoinhibitory domain and most of its catalytic core but possesses the regulatory -LRB- B -RRB- subunit binding domain.
When tested for its ability to block calcineurin-dependent signaling in Jurkat cells, expression of this `` B-subunit knock-out '' -LRB- BKO -RRB- construct suppressed reporter gene activity driven by NF-AT, the pivotal promoter element for interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -2 gene induction.
Immunoprecipitation of epitope-labeled BKO demonstrated for the formation of a tight complex with endogenous B subunit in Jurkat cells, consistent with an inhibitory mechanism that involves the sequestration of the B subunit.
Identification of an ionomycin/cyclosporin A-responsive element within the human T cell receptor gamma enhancer.
Activation through the Ca2 + / calcineurin pathway is essential to the transcription of many cytokine genes.
The conserved cis-acting sequence, GGAAAA, and transcription factors binding to this sequence are involved in the response to increased intracellular Ca2 + concentrations.
Here we report the identification and importance of the same sequence in a non-cytokine gene, the human T cell receptor gamma -LRB- TCRG -RRB- enhancer.
Our studies provide an explanation for a previous observation that TCRG mRNA levels, but not mRNA levels for T cell receptor alpha and - beta, are increased by ionomycin treatment.
The effect of Toremifene on the expression of some genes in human mononuclear cells.
Toremifene exerts multiple and varied effects on the gene expression of human peripheral mononuclear cells.
After short-term, in vitro exposure to therapeutical levels, distinct changes in P-glycoprotein, steroid receptors, p53 and Bcl-2 expression take place.
In view of the increasing use of antiestrogens in cancer therapy and prevention, there is obvious merit in long-term in vivo studies to be conducted.
In vivo anergized CD4 + T cells express perturbed AP-1 and NF-kappa B transcription factors.
Anergy is a major mechanism to ensure antigen-specific tolerance in T lymphocytes in the adult.
In vivo, anergy has mainly been studied at the cellular level.
In this study, we used the T-cell-activating superantigen staphylococcal enterotoxin A -LRB- SEA -RRB- to investigate molecular mechanisms of T-lymphocyte anergy in vivo.
Injection of SEA to adult mice activates CD4 + T cells expressing certain T-cell receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- variable region beta-chain families and induces strong and rapid production of interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB-.
In contrast, repeated injections of SEA cause CD4 + T-cell deletion and anergy in the remaining CD4 + T cells, characterized by reduced expression of IL-2 at mRNA and protein levels.
We analyzed expression of AP-1, NF-kappa B, NF-AT, and octamer binding transcription factors, which are known to be involved in the regulation of IL-2 gene promoter activity.
Large amounts of AP-1 and NF-kappa B and significant quantities of NF-AT were induced in SEA-activated CD4 + spleen T cells, whereas Oct-1 and Oct-2 DNA binding activity was similar in both resting and activated T cells.
In contrast, anergic CD4 + T cells contained severely reduced levels of AP-1 and Fos/Jun-containing NF-AT complexes but expressed significant amounts of NF-kappa B and Oct binding proteins after SEA stimulation.
Resolution of the NF-kappa B complex demonstrated predominant expression of p50-p65 heterodimers in activated CD4 + T cells, while anergic cells mainly expressed the transcriptionally inactive p50 homodimer.
Inhibition of NF-kappa B activation in human T-cell lines by anetholdithiolthione.
Nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappa B is a redox sensitive cytosolic transcription factor.
Redox regulation of NF-kappa B has been implicated in the activation of the human immuno-deficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB-.
Anetholdithiolthione -LRB- ADT, 5 - -LSB- p-methoxyphenyl -RSB- -3 H-1 ,2 - dithiol-3-thione -RRB- is an antioxidant which has been used to protect against acetaminophen - and CCl4-induced hepatotoxicity, lipid peroxidation, radiation injury, and also has been used clinically as an anti-choleretic agent.
The present study examined the effect of ADT pretreatment on NF-kappa B activation in response to a variety of stimuli such as H2O2, phorbol myristate acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- or tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF alpha -RRB-.
PMA and TNF alpha induced activation of -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappa B in human Jurkat T-cells was partially inhibited by ADT -LRB- 0.1 mM -RRB- pretreatment.
ADT -LRB- 0.1 mM -RRB- also inhibited H2O2 induced activation of the transcription factor in the peroxide sensitive human Wurzburg T-cells.
Furthermore, ADT treated Wurzburg cells had significantly higher glutathione levels as compared with untreated cells.
H2O2 induced lipid peroxidation in Wurzburg cells was remarkably inhibited by ADT pretreatment.
ADT, a pro-glutathione antioxidant, was observed to be capable of modulating NF-kappa B activation.
A mammalian histone deacetylase related to the yeast transcriptional regulator Rpd3p -LSB- see comments -RSB-.
Trapoxin is a microbially derived cyclotetrapeptide that inhibits histone deacetylation in vivo and causes mammalian cells to arrest in the cell cycle.
A trapoxin affinity matrix was used to isolate two nuclear proteins that copurified with histone deacetylase activity.
Both proteins were identified by peptide microsequencing, and a complementary DNA encoding the histone deacetylase catalytic subunit -LRB- HD1 -RRB- was cloned from a human Jurkat T cell library.
As the predicted protein is very similar to the yeast transcriptional regulator Rpd3p, these results support a role for histone deacetylase as a key regulator of eukaryotic transcription.
Surfactant suppresses NF-kappa B activation in human monocytic cells.
In addition to biophysical properties, pulmonary surfactant has immunomodulatory activity.
We previously demonstrated that both synthetic -LRB- Exosurf -RRB- and modified natural surfactant -LRB- Survanta -RRB- downregulated endotoxin-stimulated inflammatory c ytokine mRNA levels and protein products -LRB- tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LSB- TNF -RSB-, interleukin-1-beta -LSB- IL-1 -RSB-, interleukin-6 -LSB- IL-6 -RSB- -RRB- in human alveolar macrophages.
In this study, we report that both Exosurf and Survanta suppress TNF mRNA and secretion -LRB- 85 + / - 4 % mean percent inhibition + / - SEM by Exosurf ; 71 + / - 6 % by Survanta -RRB- by endotoxin-stimulated THP-1, a human monocytic cell line.
Specifically, we examined nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- activation because it is crucial in transcriptional regulation of many inflammatory cytokine genes including TNF, IL-1, and IL-6.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays showed that both surfactants decreased activation of NF-kappa B..
The presence of both p65 and p50 NF-kappa B components in LPS-activated THP-1 cells was confirmed by specific antibody induction of supershifts in mobility assays.
Transactivation of the interleukin-1alpha promoter by human T-cell leukemia virus type I and type II Tax proteins.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type I -LRB- HTLV-I -RRB- - infected T-cell lines constitutively produce high levels of interleukin-1alpha -LRB- IL-1alpha -RRB-.
To analyze the mechanisms that lead to the expression of IL-1alpha in HTLV-I-infected cell lines, we studied regulatory regions of the human IL-1alpha promoter involved in activation of the IL-1alpha gene.
IL-1alpha promoter constructs drive transcription of the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- reporter gene in HTLV-I-positive MT-2 cells, which constitutively produce IL-1alpha.
In a cotransfection assay, the Tax protein of both HTLV-I and HTLV-II specifically activated transcription from the IL-1alpha promoter in an uninfected Jurkat cell line.
A mutant Tax protein deficient in transactivation of genes by the nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappaB pathway was unable to induce transcriptional activity of IL-1alpha promoter-CAT constructs, but was rescued by exogenous provision of p65/p50 NF-kappaB.
We found that two IL-1alpha kappaB-like sites -LRB- positions -1,065 to -1,056 and +646 to +655 -RRB- specifically formed a complex with NF-kappaB-containing nuclear extract from MT-2 cells and that NF-kappaB bound with higher affinity to the 3' NF-kappaB binding site than to the 5' NF-kappaB site.
Moreover, deletion of either 5' or 3' NF-kappaB sites reduced IL-1alpha promoter activity in MT-2 cells and transactivation of the IL-1alpha promoter by exogenous NF-kappaB and Tax in Jurkat cells.
Coexpression of the interleukin-13 and interleukin-4 genes correlates with their physical linkage in the cytokine gene cluster on human chromosome 5q23-31.
Interleukin-13 -LRB- IL-13 -RRB- and IL-4 are cytokines produced by T cells that are encoded by the q23-31 region of human chromosome 5.
The human IL-13 gene was located 12.5-kb upstream of the IL-4 gene and 2-kb downstream of a CpG island.
The IL-13 gene 5' flank region included a segment with sequence homology to P elements of the IL-4 promoter involved in transcriptional activation in T cells.
Mutation of the IL-13 P element site significantly reduced IL-13 promoter activity in response to T-cell activation.
Oligonucleotides containing the IL-13 or IL-4 P element sites specifically bound the transcriptional activator protein, nuclear factor-activated T cells, preformed -LRB- NF-ATp -RRB-, when incubated with nuclear protein extracts from activated T cells.
Because the primed T cells contain higher levels of nuclear NF-ATp, capable of binding to P elements of the IL-4 and IL-13 promoters, than do freshly-isolated T cells, the NF-AT-binding P elements are attractive candidates to mediate the coordinate expression of these two cytokine genes.
AM580, a stable benzoic derivative of retinoic acid, has powerful and selective cyto-differentiating effects on acute promyelocytic leukemia cells.
All-trans retinoic acid -LRB- ATRA -RRB- is successfully used in the cyto-differentiating treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia -LRB- APL -RRB-.
Paradoxically, APL cells express PML-RAR, an aberrant form of the retinoic acid receptor type alpha -LRB- RAR alpha -RRB- derived from the leukemia-specific t -LRB- 15 ; 17 -RRB- chromosomal translocation.
We show here that AM580, a stable retinobenzoic derivative originally synthesized as a RAR alpha agonist, is a powerful inducer of granulocytic maturation in NB4, an APL-derived cell line, and in freshly isolated APL blasts.
After treatment of APL cells with AM580 either alone or in combination with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor -LRB- G-CSF -RRB-, the compound induces granulocytic maturation, as assessed by determination of the levels of leukocyte alkaline phosphatase, CD11b, CD33, and G-CSF receptor mRNA, at concentrations that are 10 - to 100-fold lower than those of ATRA necessary to produce similar effects.
By contrast, AM580 is not effective as ATRA in modulating the expression of these differentiation markers in the HL-60 cell line and in freshly isolated granulocytes obtained from the peripheral blood of chronic myelogenous leukemia patients during the stable phase of the disease.
In NB4 cells, two other synthetic nonselective RAR ligands are capable of inducing LAP as much as AM580, whereas RAR beta - or RAR gamma-specific ligands are totally ineffective.
These results show that AM580 is more powerful than ATRA in modulating the expression of differentiation antigens only in cells in which PML-RAR is present.
Binding experiments, using COS-7 cells transiently transfected with PML-RAR and the normal RAR alpha, show that AM580 has a lower affinity than ATRA for both receptors.
However, in the presence of PML-RAR, the synthetic retinoid is a much better transactivator of retinoic acid-responsive element-containing promoters than the natural retinoid, whereas, in the presence of RAR alpha, AM580 and ATRA have similar activity.
Soluble tumor necrosis factor receptors inhibit phorbol myristate acetate and cytokine-induced HIV-1 expression chronically infected U1 cells.
Recombinant human tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- binding protein-1 -LRB- r-h TBP-1 -RRB- and recombinant human soluble dimeric TNF receptor -LRB- rhu TNFR : Fc -RRB- were used to determine the relative contributions of TNF to phorbol myristate acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- and cytokine-induced human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- replication in chronically infected cell lines.
Treatment of HIV-1-infected promonocytic U1 cells with r-h-TBP-1 or rhu TNFR : Fc reduced PMA-induced HIV-1 p24 antigen production in a concentration-dependent manner, with a maximal inhibition of approximately 90 %.
Maximal inhibition of p24 antigen production in T-lymphocytic ACH-2 cells was 47 % with r-hTBP-1 and 42 % with rhu TNFR : Fc.
r-hTBP-1 and rhu TNFR : Fc also decreased p24 antigen synthesized by U1 cells in response to other stimuli, including phytohemagglutinin -LRB- PHA -RRB- - induced supernatant, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, interleukin-6, and TNF.
Addition of r-hTBP-1 to U1 cells during the last 4 h of a 24 h incubation with PMA still inhibited p24 antigen production by 15 %.
U1 cells stimulated with 10 -LRB- -7 -RRB- M PMA released approximately 1 ng/ml endogenous TBP-1 with an initial peak observed at 1 h and a second peak at 24 h after PMA stimulation.
r-hTBP-1 also partially reversed inhibition of U1 cellular proliferation caused by PMA.
Both r-hTBP-1 and rhu TNFR : Fc blocked PMA induction of nuclear factor -LRB- NK -RRB- - kappa B DNA-binding activity in U1 cells in association with decreases in HIV-1 replication.
We conclude that soluble TNF receptors can inhibit stimuli-induced HIV-1 expression and NK - kappa B DNA-binding activity in chronically infected U1 cells.
GATA transcription factors associate with a novel class of nuclear bodies in erythroblasts and megakaryocytes.
The nuclear distribution of GATA transcription factors in murine haemopoietic cells was examined by indirect immunofluorescence.
Specific bright foci of GATA-1 fluorescence were observed in erythroleukaemia cells and primary murine erythroblasts and megakaryocytes, in addition to diffuse nucleoplasmic localization.
These foci, which were preferentially found adjacent to nucleoli or at the nuclear periphery, did not represent sites of active transcription or binding of GATA-1 to consensus sites in the beta-globin loci.
The GATA-1 nuclear bodies differed from previously described nuclear structures and there was no co-localization with nuclear antigens involved in RNA processing or other ubiquitous -LRB- Spl, c-Jun and TBP -RRB- or haemopoietic -LRB- NF-E2 -RRB- transcription factors.
Interestingly, GATA-2 and GATA-3 proteins also localized to the same nuclear bodies in cell lines co-expressing GATA-1 and -2 or GATA-1 and -3 gene products.
Transcriptional basis for hyporesponsiveness of the human inducible nitric oxide synthase gene to lipopolysaccharide/interferon-gamma.
Studies included structural comparison of the promoters for human and mouse inducible NO synthase -LRB- iNOS -RRB- genes, transfection and assay of human and mouse iNOS promoter regions in response to LPS + / - IFN-gamma, and electrophoretic mobility shift assays of kappa B response elements.
Two explanations for hyporesponsiveness of the human iNOS promoter to LPS + / - IFN-gamma were found : -LRB- 1 -RRB- multiple inactivating nucleotide substitutions in the human counterpart of the enhancer element that has been shown to regulate LPS/IFN-gamma induced expression of the mouse iNOS gene ; and -LRB- 2 -RRB- and absence of one or more nuclear factors in human macrophages -LRB- e.g., an LPS-inducible nuclear factor-kappa B/Rel complex -RRB-, that is -LRB- are -RRB- required for maximal expression of the gene.
Positive regulators of the lineage-specific transcription factor GATA-1 in differentiating erythroid cells.
The zinc finger transcription factor GATA-1 is a major regulator of gene expression in erythroid, megakaryocyte, and mast cell lineages.
GATA-1 binds to WGATAR consensus motifs in the regulatory regions of virtually all erythroid cell-specific genes.
Analyses with cultured cells and cell-free systems have provided strong evidence that GATA-1 is involved in control of globin gene expression during erythroid differentiation.
Targeted mutagenesis of the GATA-1 gene in embryonic stem cells has demonstrated its requirement in normal erythroid development.
We show here that proerythroblasts and mature erythroid cells contain a diffusible activity -LRB- TAG -RRB- capable of transcriptional activation of GATA-1 and that this activity decreases during the terminal differentiation of erythroid cells.
Functional block for 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3-mediated gene regulation in human B lymphocytes.
Elements necessary for the steroid hormone 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 -LRB- 1 alpha ,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 -RRB- to induce a biological response include the presence of specific intracellular receptors -LRB- vitamin D3 receptors -LRB- VDR -RRB- -RRB- and modulation of gene expression via hormone-activated receptor binding to regulatory regions of target genes.
These parameters were examined in normal and Epstein-Barr virus-immortalized human B cells and compared with 1 alpha ,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3-responsive cells of the T and monocytic lineages.
Although resting tonsillar B cells did not express VDR mRNA, activation of these cells with interleukin-4 induced VDR in the absence of exogenously supplemented 1 alpha ,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3.
As indicators of hormone-mediated gene regulation we analyzed modulation of CD23, a common B cell/monocyte surface antigen, and 24-hydroxylase.
1 alpha ,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 inhibited CD23 expression in U937 cells, yet failed to modulate CD23 expression in B cells.
Furthermore, 1 alpha ,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 induced 24-hydroxylase mRNA expression and metabolic activity in both U937 cells and lectin-activated T cells, yet failed to induce 24-hydroxylase mRNA or its metabolic activity in B cells.
Effects of alpha-lipoic acid and dihydrolipoic acid on expression of proto-oncogene c-fos.
The transcription factor AP-1 is an important human mediator of the cellular response to serum, growth factors, and phorbol esters such as 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13 acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB-.
The AP-1 complex consists of distinct protein heterodimers encoded by the proto-oncogene c-fos and c-jun mRNA whose gene expression can be induced by TPA, cyclic AMP and growth factors.
To investigate the role of reactive oxygen species we studied the effects of alpha-lipoic acid and dihydrolipoic acid -LRB- natural thiol antioxidants -RRB- on the expression of c-fos mRNA in human Jurkat T cells.
When cells were preincubated with dihydrolipoic acid -LRB- 0.2 mM -RRB- the expression of c-fos mRNA was suppressed at 30 min after stimulation of TPA -LRB- 0.5 microM -RRB- whereas in the case of preincubation of alpha-lipoic acid -LRB- 0.2 microM -RRB-, the expression was enhanced at 30 min.
Alternative splicing of RNA transcripts encoded by the murine p105 NF-kappa B gene generates I kappa B gamma isoforms with different inhibitory activities.
The gene encoding the 105-kDa protein -LRB- p105 -RRB- precursor of the p50 subunit of transcription factor NF-kappa B also encodes a p70 I kappa B protein, I kappa B gamma, which is identical to the C-terminal 607 amino acids of p105.
Here we show that alternative RNA splicing generates I kappa B gamma isoforms with properties different from those of p70.
One 63-kDa isoform, termed I kappa B gamma-1, which lacks 59 amino acids C-terminal to ankyrin repeat 7, has a novel 35-amino acid C terminus encoded by an alternative reading frame of the p105 gene.
A 55-kDa isoform, I kappa B gamma-2, lacks the 190 C-terminal amino acids of p70I kappa B gamma.
In contrast to p70I kappa B gamma, which is a cytoplasmic protein, I kappa B gamma-1 is found in both the cytoplasm and nucleus, whereas I kappa B gamma-2 is predominantly nuclear.
The I kappa B gamma isoforms also display differences in specificity and affinity for Rel/NF-kappa B proteins.
While p70I kappa B gamma inhibits p50 -, p65 -, and c-Rel-mediated transactivation and/or DNA binding, both I kappa B gamma-1 and I kappa B gamma-2 are specific for p50 and have different affinities for this subunit.
Activation of nuclear factor kappa B in human lymphoblastoid cells by low-dose ionizing radiation.
Nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- is a pleiotropic transcription factor which is involved in the transcriptional regulation of several specific genes.
The present report demonstrates that even lower doses of ionizing radiation, 0.25-2 .0 Gy, are capable of inducing expression of NF-kappa B in EBV-transformed 244B human lymphoblastoid cells.
These results are in a dose range where the viability of the cells remains very high.
After exposure to 137Cs gamma rays at a dose rate of 1.17 Gy/min, a maximum in expression of NF-kappa B was seen at 8 h after a 0.5-Gy exposure.
Time-course studies revealed a biphasic time-dependent expression after 0.5 -, 1 - and 2-Gy exposures.
However, for each time examined, the expression of NF-kappa B was maximum after the 0.5-Gy exposure.
The expression of the p50 and p65 NF-kappa B subunits was also shown to be regulated differentially after exposures to 1.0 and 2.0 Gy.
Some antioxidants inhibit, in a co-ordinate fashion, the production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, IL-beta, and IL-6 by human peripheral blood mononuclear cells.
Some antioxidants, including butylated hydroxyanisole -LRB- BHA -RRB-, tetrahydropapaveroline -LRB- THP -RRB-, nordihydroguiauretic acid, and 10,11-dihydroxyaporphine -LRB- DHA -RRB-, were found to be potent inhibitors of the production of tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- - alpha, IL-1 beta, and IL-6 by human peripheral blood mononuclear cells -LRB- PBMC -RRB- stimulated by lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- -LRB- IC50s in the low micromolar range -RRB-.
Inhibition of cytokine production was gene selective and not due to general effects on protein synthesis.
Inhibition of cytokine production by PBMC was observed also when other inducers were used -LRB- staphylococci, silica, zymosan -RRB-.
Much higher concentrations of other antioxidants -- including ascorbic acid, trolox, alpha-tocopherol, butylated hydroxytoluene, and the 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor zileuton -- did not affect the production of these cytokines.
The active compounds did not inhibit IL-1-induced production of IL-6 in fibroblasts, showing the cell selectivity of the effect.
Antioxidant-mediated inhibition of cytokine production was correlated with low levels of the corresponding messenger RNAs.
Nuclear run-on experiments showed that THP inhibited transcription of the IL-1 beta gene.
THP decreased the concentration of the transcription factors NF-kappa B and AP-1 detected in nuclear extracts of PBMC cultured in the presence or absence of LPS.
THP and DHA markedly decreased the levels of TNF-alpha and IL-1 beta in the circulation of mice following LPS injection.
Thus antioxidants vary widely in potency as inhibitors of the activation of transcription factors and of the transcription of genes for pro-inflammatory cytokines.
Coordinate inhibition of the transcription of genes for inflammatory cytokines could provide a strategy for therapy of diseases with inflammatory pathogenesis and for septic shock.
Central nervous system-derived cells express a kappa B-binding activity that enhances human immunodeficiency virus type 1 transcription in vitro and facilitates TAR-independent transactivation by Tat.
The Tat protein of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- is a potent activator of long terminal repeat-directed transcription.
While in most cell types, activation requires interaction of Tat with the unusual transcription element TAR, astrocytic glial cells support TAR-independent transactivation of HIV-1 transcription by Tat.
This alternative pathway of Tat activation is mediated by the viral enhancer, a kappa B domain capable of binding the prototypical form of the transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- present in many cell types, including T lymphocytes.
Tat transactivation mediated by the kappa B domain is sufficient to allow replication of TAR-deleted mutant HIV-1 in astrocytes.
The present study demonstrates the existence of kappa B-specific binding factors present in human glial astrocytes that differ from prototypical NF-kappa B..
The novel astrocyte-derived kappa B-binding activity is retained on an HIV-1 Tat affinity column, while prototypical NF-kappa B from Jurkat T cells is not.
In vitro transcription studies demonstrate that astrocyte-derived kappa B-binding factors activate transcription of the HIV-1 long terminal repeat and that this activation is dependent on the kappa B domain.
Moreover, TAR-independent transactivation of HIV-1 transcription is reproduced in vitro in an astrocyte factor-dependent manner which correlates with kappa B-binding activity.
The importance of the central nervous system-enriched kappa B transcription factor in the regulation of HIV-1 expression is discussed.
An intricate arrangement of binding sites for the Ets family of transcription factors regulates activity of the alpha 4 integrin gene promoter.
alpha 4 integrins mediate cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix interactions that are critical for maturation and function of the immune system as well as differentiation of skeletal muscle.
Here we examine molecular mechanisms controlling the pattern of alpha 4 expression.
The activity of constructs containing 5' deletion mutants of the alpha 4 gene promoter was compared in transfection assays into cell lines that express alpha 4 and cell lines that do not.
The sequence between position -42 and -76 base pairs -LRB- bp -RRB- was required for efficient transcription in cells that express alpha 4, but it showed no activity in HeLa cells, which do not express alpha 4.
Three binding sites for the Ets family of transcription factors are found in this region : two adjacent sites at positions -50 and -54 bp and a more 5' site at position -67 bp.
Using a series of constructs containing deletions and mutations in this region, we found that the 3' - most site alone was sufficient for binding GA-binding protein alpha -LRB- GABP alpha -RRB- / GABP beta and for a low level of transcriptional activation.
When all three sites were present, a second complex `` a '' was detected, which contains an unknown member of the Ets family.
Formation of complex a was cell-type specific and correlated with a high level of transcription.
Deletion of the 5' - most Ets site had no effect on binding to GABP alpha/GABP beta, but it eliminated a..
Concomitant with this loss of a, a new Ets-1-containing complex `` c '' appeared.
Complex c substituted efficiently for complex a in transcriptional activation.
Lipopolysaccharide induction of tissue factor gene expression in monocytic cells is mediated by binding of c-Rel/p65 heterodimers to a kappa B-like site.
Exposure of monocytic cells to bacterial lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- activates the NF-kappa B/Rel family of proteins and leads to the rapid induction of inflammatory gene products, including tissue factor -LRB- TF -RRB-.
TF is the primary cellular initiator of the coagulation protease cascades.
Here we report the characterization of a nuclear complex from human monocytic cells that bound to a kappa B-like site, 5' - CGGAGTTTCC-3', in the 5' - flanking region of the human TF gene.
This nuclear complex was activated by LPS with kinetics that preceded induction of the TF gene.
In vitro binding studies demonstrated that the TF site bound translated c-Rel and p65 homodimers but not p50/p65 heterodimers or p50 homodimers.
In fact, under low-ionic-strength conditions, the TF complex did not migrate with translated p50/p65 dimers but instead comigrated with c-Rel/p65 dimers.
Antibodies against the NF-kappa B and Rel proteins and UV cross-linking studies revealed the presence of c-Rel and p65 and the absence of p50 in the TF complex and further showed that c-Rel/p65 heterodimers selectively bound to the TF kappa B-like site.
Taken together, our results demonstrated that binding of c-Rel/p65 heterodimers to a novel kappa B-like site mediated LPS induction of TF gene expression in monocytic cells.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 Tat upregulates interleukin-2 secretion in activated T cells.
To investigate the effects of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- Tat on interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- expression, we used IL-2 promoter-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase constructs and IL-2-secreting Jurkat T cells as a model system.
Transient expression of HIV-1 Tat induced a five - to eightfold increase in IL-2 promoter activity in Jurkat T cells stimulated with phytohemagglutinin and phorbol myristate acetate.
IL-2 secretion was increased more than twofold in both Jurkat T cells and primary T cells stimulated by extracellular HIV-1 Tat protein.
The NF-kappa B site at positions -206 to -195 of the IL-2 promoter was required but not sufficient for the Tat effect.
The Tat-mediated increase in IL-2 promoter activity could selectively be blocked by antisense tat or-unlike the analogous effect of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 Tax-by cyclosporin A..
Protein kinase C-zeta mediates NF-kappa B activation in human immunodeficiency virus-infected monocytes.
NF-kappa B is a transcription factor involved in the regulation of the HIV long terminal repeat and is selectively activated following HIV infection of human macrophages.
In this study, we have focused on atypical PKC isoenzymes.
PKC-zeta belongs to this family and is known to be an important step in NF-kappa B activation in other cell systems.
Immunoblotting experiments with U937 cells demonstrate that PKC-zeta is present in these cells, and its expression can be downmodulated by antisense oligonucleotides -LRB- AO -RRB-.
The HIV-mediated NF-kappa B activation is selectively reduced by AO to PKC-zeta.
In addition, cotransfection of a negative dominant molecule of PKC-zeta -LRB- PKC-zeta mut -RRB- with NF-kappa B-dependent reporter genes selectively inhibits the HIV - but not phorbol myristate acetate - or lipopolysaccharide-mediated activation of NF-kappa B..
That PKC-zeta is specific in regulating NF-kappa B is concluded from the inability of PKC-zeta -LRB- mut -RRB- to interfere with the basal or phorbol myristate acetate-inducible CREB - or AP1-dependent transcriptional activity.
Lastly, we demonstrate a selective inhibition of p24 production by HIV-infected human macrophages when treated with AO to PKC-zeta.
Initiation binding repressor, a factor that binds to the transcription initiation site of the histone h5 gene, is a glycosylated member of a family of cell growth regulators -LSB- corrected -RSB- -LSB- published erratum appears in Mol Cell Biol 1996 Feb ; 16 -LRB- 2 -RRB- :735 -RSB-.
Initiation binding repressor -LSB- corrected -RSB- -LRB- IBR -RRB- is a chicken erythrocyte factor -LRB- apparent molecular mass, 70 to 73 kDa -RRB- that binds to the sequences spanning the transcription initiation site of the histone h5 gene, repressing its transcription.
A variety of other cells, including transformed erythroid precursors, do not have IBR but a factor referred to as IBF -LRB- 68 to 70 kDa -RRB- that recognizes the same IBR sites.
We have cloned the IBR cDNA and studied the relationship of IBR and IBF.
IBR is a 503-amino-acid-long acidic protein which is 99.0 % identical to the recently reported human NRF-1 / alpha-Pal factor and highly related to the invertebrate transcription factors P3A2 and erected wing gene product -LRB- EWG -RRB-.
We have analyzed several molecular aspects of IBR/F and shown that the factor associates as stable homodimers and that the dimer is the relevant DNA-binding species.
Binding site selection revealed that the alternating RCGCRYGCGY consensus constitutes high-affinity IBR/F binding sites and that the direct-repeat palindrome TGCGCATGCGCA is the optimal site.
Inhibition of NF-AT-dependent transcription by NF-kappa B : implications for differential gene expression in T helper cell subsets.
Activation of individual CD4 + T cells results in differential lymphokine expression : interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- is preferentially produced by T helper type 1 -LRB- TH1 -RRB- cells, which are involved in cell-mediated immune responses, whereas IL-4 is synthesized by TH2 cells, which are essential for humoral immunity.
The Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - dependent factor NF-ATp plays a key role in the inducible transcription of both these lymphokine genes.
However, while IL2 expression requires the contribution of Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - and protein kinase C-dependent signals, we report that activation of human IL4 transcription through the Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - dependent pathway is diminished by protein kinase C stimulation in Jurkat T cells.
This phenomenon is due to mutually exclusive binding of NF-ATp and NF-kappa B to the P sequence, an element located 69 bp upstream of the IL4 transcription initiation site.
Human IL4 promoter-mediated transcription is downregulated in Jurkat cells stimulated with the NF-kappa B-activating cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha and suppressed in RelA-overexpressing cells.
In contrast, protein kinase C stimulation or RelA overexpression does not affect the activity of a human IL4 promoter containing a mouse P sequence, which is a higher-affinity site for NF-ATp and a lower-affinity site for RelA.
Functional characterization of the murine homolog of the B cell-specific coactivator BOB .1 / OBF .1.
B cell-specific transcriptional promoter activity mediated by the octamer motif requires the Oct1 or Oct2 protein and additional B cell-restricted cofactors.
One such cofactor, BOB .1 / OBF .1, was recently isolated from human B cells.
Here, we describe the isolation and detailed characterization of the murine homolog.
Full-length cDNAs and genomic clones were isolated, and the gene structure was determined.
Comparison of the deduced amino acids shows 88 % sequence identity between mouse and human BOB .1 / OBF .1.
The NH2-terminal 126 amino acids of BOB .1 / OBF .1 are both essential and sufficient for interaction with the POU domains of either Oct1 or Oct2.
This protein-protein interaction does not require the simultaneous binding of Oct proteins to DNA, and high resolution footprinting of the Oct-DNA interaction reveals that binding of BOB .1 / OBF .1 to Oct1 or Oct2 does not alter the interaction with DNA.
BOB .1 / OBF .1 can efficiently activate octamer-dependent promoters in fibroblasts ; however, it fails to stimulate octamer-dependent enhancer activity.
Fusion of subdomains of BOB .1 / OBF .1 with the GAL4 DNA binding domain reveals that both NH2 - and COOH-terminal domains of BOB .1 / OBF .1 contribute to full transactivation function, the COOH-terminal domain is more efficient in this transactivation assay.
Consistent with the failure of full-length BOB .1 / OBF .1 to stimulate octamer-dependent enhancer elements in non B cells, the GAL4 fusions likewise only stimulate from a promoter-proximal position.
Polymorphic nucleotides within the human IL-4 promoter that mediate overexpression of the gene.
A recent sib-pair analysis revealed a tight linkage between markers on 5q31 .1 and a major susceptibility gene controlling total serum IgE levels.
Due to its location within this cluster and its biologic role in Ig class switching and Th2 cell differentiation, the IL-4 gene has emerged as one major candidate for the atopy gene.
In support of this model, we report that the human IL-4 promoter exists in multiple allelic forms that exhibit distinct transcriptional activities in IL-4-positive T cells.
A particular allele has an unusually high transcriptional activity.
In EMSAs, this substitution results in a markedly enhanced affinity for sequence-specific complexes exhibiting an AP-1 specificity.
IL-10 cooperates with TNF-alpha to activate HIV-1 from latently and acutely infected cells of monocyte/macrophage lineage.
IL-10 is elevated in HIV-1-infected individuals and has been implicated in disease progression.
In this study, we investigated the effects of IL-10 on the activation of HIV-1 from infected monocytes and macrophages.
Although IL-10 alone did not induce HIV-1 replication, in the presence of TNF-alpha, IL-10 markedly enhanced virion production from a chronically infected promonocytic cell line -LRB- U1 -RRB- and in acutely infected monocyte-derived macrophages.
Overproduction of NFKB2 -LRB- lyt-10 -RRB- and c-Rel : a mechanism for HTLV-I Tax-mediated trans-activation via the NF-kappa B signalling pathway.
Molecular, biochemical and epidemiological evidence implicate HTLV-I as an etiologic agent of adult T cell leukemia -LRB- ATL -RRB-.
The Tax protein of HTLV-I, a positive transcriptional activator of HTLV-I gene expression, is a viral oncogene that also increases transcription of cellular genes including GM-CSF, IL-2R alpha and IL-2.
One of the cellular targets of the trans-activating effects of Tax is the NF-kappa B/Rel family of transcription factors, pleiotropic regulators of immunoregulatory, cytokine and viral gene expression.
In this report, we demonstrate that NFKB2 -LRB- lyt-10 -RRB- and c-Rel are overexpressed in HTLV-I infected and Tax-expressing cells and, together, account for the majority of the constitutive NF-kappa B binding activity in these cells before and after PMA stimulation.
Most importantly, we show a Tax-dependent correlation between expression of NFKB2 -LRB- p100 -RRB- and processing to the DNA binding NFKB2 -LRB- p52 -RRB- form, induction of c-Rel, and trans-activation of NF-kappa B-mediated gene expression.
Furthermore, the NFKB2 precursor is physically associated with c-Rel and with Tax in HTLV-I infected cells.
Structure and expression of the human GATA3 gene.
To understand GATA3 gene regulation, we cloned the human gene and the 5' end of the mouse GATA3 gene.
We show that the human GATA3 gene contains six exons distributed over 17 kb of DNA.
The two human GATA3 zinc fingers are encoded by two separate exons highly conserved with those of GATA1, but no other structural homologies between these two genes can be found.
The human and mouse GATA3 transcription units start at a major initiation site.
The promoter sequence analysis of these two genes revealed that they are embedded within a CpG island and share structural features often found in the promoters of housekeeping genes.
Finally, we show that a DNA fragment containing the human GATA3 transcription unit, 3 kb upstream from the initiation site and 4 kb downstream from the polyadenylation site, displays T-cell specificity.
Signals and nuclear factors that regulate the expression of interleukin-4 and interleukin-5 genes in helper T cells.
Mouse thymoma line EL-4 cells produce cytokines such as interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -2, IL-3, IL-4, IL-10, and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor in response to phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB-.
EL-4 cells also produce low levels of IL-5 when stimulated by PMA alone ; however, cAMP greatly augments PMA-dependent IL-5 production.
A transient transfection assay revealed that two signals, PMA and cAMP, are required for optimal activation of the IL-5 promoter.
In contrast, cAMP almost completely inhibited the PMA-dependent activation of the endogenous IL-2 gene, as well as the transfected IL-2 promoter.
One of the nuclear factors -LRB- NFs -RRB- that regulates the response of the IL-5 promoter to cAMP and PMA has properties similar to NF for activated t cell.
The P sequence of the IL-4 gene, defined as a responsive element for PMA and calcium ionophore -LRB- A23187 -RRB-, shares sequence similarity with the NF kappa B and the NF-activated T cell binding sites.
In electromobility shift assays both NF-kappa B -LRB- P65 or P65/P50 heterodimer -RRB- and NF-AT bound to the P sequence.
However, sequence specificity of NF-AT was more similar to that of NF -LRB- P -RRB-, and only a small amount of P65 was detected in NF -LRB- P -RRB-.
Induction of IL-8 expression in T cells uses the CD28 costimulatory pathway.
IL-8, a potent chemotactic factor for neutrophil granulocytes and lymphocytes, is a proinflammatory cytokine secreted by a variety of cell types, including T cells.
Stimulation of the CD28 cell surface molecule delivers costimulatory signals essential for lymphokine production in activated T cells via a conserved sequence element found in the promoter of several lymphokine genes.
Anti-CD28-stimulated T cells produced significant amounts of IL-8 ; additionally, costimulation with anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 Abs resulted in a synergistic induction of IL-8 secretion.
Sequence homology, single nucleotide mutations, and anti-CD28 Ab stimulation studies established that the NF-kappa B-like sequence in the promoter of the IL-8 gene functioned as a CD28 response element.
Furthermore, cyclosporin A, but not rapamycin, blocked the synergistic induction of IL-8 expression achieved with anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 costimulation.
Characterization of NF -LRB- P -RRB-, the nuclear factor that interacts with the regulatory P sequence -LRB- 5' - CGAAAATTTCC-3' -RRB- of the human interleukin-4 gene : relationship to NF-kappa B and NF-AT.
The P sequence of the human interleukin-4 -LRB- IL-4 -RRB- gene, which was defined as a responsive element for phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and calcium ionophore -LRB- A23187 -RRB- in Jurkat T cells, shares sequence similarity with the NF-kappa B and the NF-AT binding sites.
NF-kappa B -LRB- P65 or P65/P50 heterodimer -RRB- bound to the P sequence in electrophoretic mobility shift assays -LRB- EMSA -RRB- and activated transcription through the P sequence when expression plasmids were cotransfected with P sequence-driven reporter plasmids in Jurkat T cells.
In EMSAs, NF -LRB- P -RRB- binding was inhibited by the unlabeled NF-AT binding site but not by the unlabeled AP1 binding site and purified NF-AT contained an activity that bound to the P sequence.
Both mobility shift and sequence specificity of NF-AT were similar to those of NF -LRB- P -RRB- and only a small amount of P65 was detected in NF -LRB- P -RRB- in crude nuclear extracts.
Unlike NF-AT, NF -LRB- P -RRB- does not contain AP1 as its DNA binding component.
Calcineurin activates transcription from the GM-CSF promoter in synergy with either protein kinase C or NF-kappa B/AP -1 in T cells.
Two cis-acting elements GM-kappa B/GC-box and CLE0, of the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB- gene are required for maximal induction in Jurkat T cells by costimulation with phorbol-12-myristate acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- and Ca2 + ionophore -LRB- A23187 -RRB-.
The GM-kappa B sequence is recognized by NF-kappa B, which is mainly induced by PMA.
The CLE0 sequence interacts with factors, related to a PMA-induced AP-1 and a PMA/A23187-induced NF-AT.
Cotransfection of NF-kappa B -LRB- p50/p65 -RRB- - or AP-1 -LRB- c-Jun/c-Fos -RRB- - expression vectors into Jurkat cells with a luciferase reporter containing the GM-CSF promoter did not stimulate transcription from the GM-CSF promoter.
In contrast, cotransfection with a combination of NF-kappa B and AP-1 significantly augmented transcription from the GM-CSF promoter containing the GM-kappa B/GC-box and the CLE0 -LRB- AP-1 / NF-AT -RRB-.
Expression of a constitutively active calcineurin -LRB- CN -RRB-, a Ca2 + / calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase, potentiated by two fold the transcriptional activation by NF-kappa B/AP -1.
Both constitutively active forms of CN and protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- synergistically activated transcription from the GM-CSF promoter.
Activation of the interleukin 6 gene by Mycobacterium tuberculosis or lipopolysaccharide is mediated by nuclear factors NF-IL6 and NF-kappa B -LSB- published erratum appears in Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1995 Apr 11 ; 92 -LRB- 8 -RRB- :3632 -RSB-.
The host response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis includes granuloma formation at sites of infection and systemic symptoms.
Cytokines have been identified by immunohistochemistry in granulomas in animal models of bacillus Calmette-Guerin -LRB- BCG -RRB- infection and are released by mononuclear phagocytes upon stimulation by mycobacterial proteins.
We have demonstrated that lipoarabinomannan -LRB- LAM -RRB- from the mycobacterial cell wall, which was virtually devoid of lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-, stimulated mononuclear phagocytes to release IL-6 in a dose-response manner.
LAM and LPS were potent inducers of IL-6 gene expression in peripheral blood monocytes.
Both LAM - and LPS-inducible IL-6 promoter activity was localized to a DNA fragment, positions -158 to -49, by deletion analysis and chloramphenicol acetyltransferase assay.
Two nuclear factor NF-IL6 -LRB- positions -153 to -145 and -83 to -75 -RRB- and one nuclear factor NF-kappa B -LRB- positions -72 to -63 -RRB- motifs are present within this fragment.
Site-directed mutagenesis of one or more of these motifs within the IL-6 promoter demonstrated that each has positive regulatory activity and that they could act in a function - and orientation-independent manner.
Deletion of all three elements abolished inducibility of IL-6 promoter activity by both LAM and LPS.
We conclude that the NF-IL6 and NF-kappa B sites mediate IL-6 induction in response to both LPS and LAM, acting as bacterial or mycobacterial response elements.
trans-activation of the HIV promoter by a cDNA and its genomic clones of human herpesvirus-6.
Human herpesvirus 6 -LRB- HHV-6 -RRB- is a lymphotropic herpesvirus, and in vitro, it can productively infect human CD4 + T cells as HIV-1.
An HHV-6 -LRB- GS -RRB- cDNA clone, pCD41, encoding for a 41-kDa nuclear protein was identified and characterized previously -LRB- Chang and Balachandran, J. Virol. 65, 2884-2894 and 7085, 1991 -RRB-.
Sequence analyses show that this protein has significant homology with the human cytomegalovirus UL44 gene coding for the ICP36 family of early-late-class phosphoprotein.
Using this cDNA as the probe, a 3.8-kb EcoRI genomic fragment encoding the HHV-6 -LRB- GS -RRB- P41 was cloned and designated as pGD41.
When cotransfected with the HIV LTR CAT into CV-1 cells, both the pCD41 and pGD41 clones trans-activated the HIV LTR.
Deletion constructs of the pCD41 clone demonstrated that ORF-A was critical for the HIV LTR activation.
Deletion analyses of the pCD41 ORF-A and the use of promoter constructs further mapped an internal functional promoter within the pCD41 sequence that can direct the synthesis of the trans-activating protein.
By using HIV LTR deletion mutants, the NF-kappa B binding sites were found to be critical for response to the pCD41 trans-activation.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 Nef protein down-regulates transcription factors NF-kappa B and AP-1 in human T cells in vitro after T-cell receptor stimulation.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- negative factor -LRB- Nef -RRB- has been shown to down-regulate the transcription factors NF-kappa B and AP-1 in vitro.
On the other hand, stimulation of T cells by mitogens or antibodies to the T-cell receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- - CD3 complex resulted in the down-regulation of transcriptional factors NF-kappa B and AP-1 in cells expressing the nef gene compared with cells not expressing the nef gene.
Because the Nef protein does not affect the surface expression of the CD3-TCR complex, we conclude that the Nef protein down-regulates the transcriptional factors NF-kappa B and AP-1 in T cells in vitro through an effect on the TCR-dependent signal transduction pathway.
Expression of v-src in T cells correlates with nuclear expression of NF-kappa B..
NF-kappa B is a rapidly inducible transcriptional activator that responds to a variety of signals and influences the expression of many genes involved in the immune response.
Protein tyrosine kinases transmit signals from cytokine and immune receptors.
Very little information exists linking these two important classes of signaling molecules.
We now demonstrate that v-src expression correlates with nuclear expression of a kappa B binding complex similar to that induced by phorbol ester and ionomycin, as detected by electrophoretic mobility shift assay using a variety of kappa B sites.
This complex was blocked by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor, herbimycin A..
The v-src-induced complex comprised the p50 and p65 components of NF-kappa B, as determined by supershift and immunoblot analysis.
As a functional correlate of this finding, transient co-transfection of HIV-1 LTR reporter constructs in a different T cell line demonstrated that v-src activated this promoter in a kappa B-dependent manner.
We found that transactivation of the HIV-1 LTR by v-src was more sensitive to mutations of the proximal, rather than the distal, kappa B element.
The implications for T cell receptor signaling and HIV-1 gene expression are considered.
A transcriptional regulatory element is associated with a nuclease-hypersensitive site in the pol gene of human immunodeficiency virus type 1.
Analysis of the chromatin organization of the integrated human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- genome has previously revealed a major constitutive DNase I-hypersensitive site associated with the pol gene -LRB- E. Verdin, J. Virol. 65:6790 -6799, 1991 -RRB-.
In the present report, high-resolution mapping of this site with DNase I and micrococcal nuclease identified a nucleosome-free region centered around nucleotides -LRB- nt -RRB- 4490 to 4766.
A 500-bp fragment encompassing this hypersensitive site -LRB- nt 4481 to 4982 -RRB- exhibited transcription-enhancing activity -LRB- two - to threefold -RRB- when it was cloned in its natural position with respect to the HIV-1 promoter after transient transfection in U937 and CEM cells.
Using in vitro footprinting and gel shift assays, we have identified four distinct binding sites for nuclear proteins within this positive regulatory element.
Site B -LRB- nt 4519 to 4545 -RRB- specifically bound four distinct nuclear protein complexes : a ubiquitous factor, a T-cell-specific factor, a B-cell-specific factor, and the monocyte/macrophage - and B-cell-specific transcription factor PU .1 / Spi-1.
In most HIV-1 isolates in which this PU box was not conserved, it was replaced by a binding site for the related factor Ets1.
Factors binding to site C -LRB- nt 4681 to 4701 -RRB- had a DNA-binding specificity similar to that of factors binding to site B, except for PU .1 / Spi-1.
A GC box containing a binding site for Sp1 was identified -LRB- nt 4623 to 4631 -RRB-.
Site D -LRB- nt 4816 to 4851 -RRB- specifically bound a ubiquitously expressed factor.
Hypoxia causes the activation of nuclear factor kappa B through the phosphorylation of I kappa B alpha on tyrosine residues.
The response of mammalian cells to stress is controlled by transcriptional regulatory proteins such as nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- to induce a wide variety of early response genes.
In this report, we show that exposure of cells to hypoxia -LRB- 0.02 % O2 -RRB- results in I kappa B alpha degradation, increased NF-kappa B DNA binding activity, and transactivation of a reporter gene construct containing two NF-kappa B DNA binding sites.
Pretreatment of cells with protein tyrosine kinase inhibitors and the dominant negative allele of c-Raf-1 -LRB- Raf 301 -RRB- inhibited I kappa B alpha degradation, NF-kappa B binding, and transactivation of kappa B reporter constructs by hypoxia.
To demonstrate a direct link between changes in the phosphorylation pattern of I kappa B alpha with NF-kappa B activation, we immunoprecipitated I kappa B alpha after varying times of hypoxic exposure and found that its tyrosine phosphorylation status increased during hypoxic exposure.
Inhibition of the transfer of tyrosine phosphoryl groups onto I kappa B alpha prevented I kappa B alpha degradation and NF-kappa B binding.
In comparison to other activators of NF-kappa B such as phorbol myristate acetate or tumor necrosis factor, we did not detect changes in the tyrosine phosphorylation status of I kappa B alpha following treatment with either of these agents.
Function of NF-kappa B/Rel binding sites in the major histocompatibility complex class II invariant chain promoter is dependent on cell-specific binding of different NF-kappa B/Rel subunits.
The promoter of the human major histocompatibility complex class II-associated invariant-chain gene -LRB- Ii -RRB- contains two NF-kappa B/Rel binding sites located at -109 to -118 -LRB- Ii kappa B-1 -RRB- and -163 to -172 -LRB- Ii kappa B-2 -RRB- from the transcription start site.
We report here that the differential function of each of these NF-kappa B/Rel sites in several distinct cell types depends on cell-specific binding of NF-kappa B/Rel transcription factors.
Ii kappa B-1 is a positive regulatory element in B-cell lines and in the Ii-expressing T-cell line, H9, but acts as a negative regulatory element in myelomonocytic and glia cell lines.
In vivo protein-DNA contacts are detectable at Ii kappa B-1 in cell lines in which this site is functional as either a positive or negative regulator.
Electrophoretic mobility supershift assays determine that members of the NF-kappa B/Rel family of transcription factors can bind to this site in vitro and that DNA-binding complexes that contain p50, p52, p65, and cRel correlate with positive regulation whereas the presence of p50 correlates with negative regulation.
Ii kappa B-2 is a site of positive regulation in B-cell lines and a site of negative regulation in H9 T cells, myelomonocytic, and glial cell lines.
In vivo occupancy of this site is observed only in the H9 T-cell line.
Hypoxic induction of interleukin-8 gene expression in human endothelial cells.
Because leukocyte-mediated tissue damage is an important component of the pathologic picture in ischemia/reperfusion, we have sought mechanisms by which PMNs are directed into hypoxic tissue.
Incubation of human endothelial cells -LRB- ECs -RRB- in hypoxia, PO2 approximately 14-18 Torr, led to time-dependent release of IL-8 antigen into the conditioned medium ; this was accompanied by increased chemotactic activity for PMNs, blocked by antibody to IL-8.
Production of IL-8 by hypoxic ECs occurred concomitantly with both increased levels of IL-8 mRNA, based on polymerase chain reaction analysis, and increased IL-8 transcription, based on nuclear run-on assays.
Northern analysis of mRNA from hypoxic ECs also demonstrated increased levels of mRNA for macrophage chemotactic protein-1, another member of the chemokine superfamily of proinflammatory cytokines.
IL-8 gene induction was associated with the presence of increased binding activity in nuclear extracts from hypoxic ECs for the NF-kB site.
Studies with human umbilical vein segments exposed to hypoxia also demonstrated increased elaboration of IL-8 antigen compared with normoxic controls.
In mice exposed to hypoxia -LRB- PO2 approximately 30-40 Torr -RRB-, there was increased pulmonary leukostasis, as evidenced by increased myeloperoxidase activity in tissue homogenates.
In parallel, increased levels of transcripts for IP-10, a murine homologue in the chemokine family related to IL-8, were observed in hypoxic lung tissue.
A novel heterodimerization partner for thyroid hormone receptor.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor.
Retinoid-like receptors play a central role in hormonal responses by forming heterodimers with other nuclear hormone receptors.
In this study we have identified the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor -LRB- PPAR -RRB- as a new thyroid hormone receptor -LRB- THR -RRB- auxiliary nuclear protein, heterodimerizing with THR in solution.
Although these heterodimers do not recognize a classical thyroid hormone response element -LRB- TRE -RRB- characterized by direct repeat separated by four nucleotides -LRB- DR +4 -RRB-, PPAR behaves as a dominant negative regulator of thyroid hormone -LRB- TH -RRB- action.
However, a TH-dependent positive effect is elicited by selective interaction of the THR beta-PPAR but not the THR alpha-PPAR heterodimer with a novel TRE -LRB- DR +2 -RRB-.
The critical region of THR beta was mapped to 3 amino acids in the distal box of the DNA binding domain.
Hence, PPAR can positively or negatively influence TH action depending on TRE structure and THR isotype.
Activation of nuclear factor kappa B in human neuroblastoma cell lines.
The nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- is a eukaryotic transcription factor.
In B cells and macrophages it is constitutively present in cell nuclei, whereas in many other cell types, NF-kappa B translocates from cytosol to nucleus as a result of transduction by tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF alpha -RRB-, phorbol ester, and other polyclonal signals.
Using neuroblastoma cell lines as models, we have shown that in neural cells NF-kappa B was present in the cytosol and translocated into nuclei as a result of TNF alpha treatment.
The TNF alpha-activated NF-kappa B was transcriptionally functional.
NF-kappa B activation by TNF alpha was not correlated with cell differentiation or proliferation.
However, reagents such as nerve growth factor -LRB- NGF -RRB- and the phorbol ester phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB-, which induce phenotypical differentiation of the SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell line, activated NF-kappa B, but only in that particular cell line.
In a NGF-responsive rat pheochromocytoma cell line, PC12, PMA activated NF-kappa B, whereas NGF did not.
In other neuroblastoma cell lines, such as SK-N-Be -LRB- 2 -RRB-, the lack of PMA induction of differentiation was correlated with the lack of NF-kappa B activation.
We found, moreover, that in SK-N-Be -LRB- 2 -RRB- cells protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- enzymatic activity was much lower compared with that in a control cell line and that the low PKC enzymatic activity was due to low PKC protein expression.
NF-kappa B was not activated by retinoic acid, which induced morphological differentiation of all the neuroblastoma cell lines used in the present study.
Thus, NF-kappa B activation was not required for neuroblastoma cell differentiation.
Furthermore, the results obtained with TNF alpha proved that NF-kappa B activation was not sufficient for induction of neuroblastoma differentiation.
Inhibition of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 replication by a Tat-activated, transduced interferon gene : targeted expression to human immunodeficiency virus type 1-infected cells.
We have examined the feasibility of using interferon -LRB- IFN -RRB- gene transfer as a novel approach to anti-human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- therapy in this study.
To limit expression of a transduced HIV-1 long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- - IFNA2 -LRB- the new approved nomenclature for IFN genes is used throughout this article -RRB- hybrid gene to the HIV-1-infected cells, HIV-1 LTR was modified.
Deletion of the NF-kappa B elements of the HIV-1 LTR significantly inhibited Tat-mediated transactivation in T-cell lines, as well as in a monocyte line, U937.
Replacement of the NF-kappa B elements in the HIV-1 LTR by a DNA fragment derived from the 5' - flanking region of IFN-stimulated gene 15 -LRB- ISG15 -RRB-, containing the IFN-stimulated response element, partially restored Tat-mediated activation of LTR in T cells as well as in monocytes.
Insertion of this chimeric promoter -LRB- ISG15 LTR -RRB- upstream of the human IFNA2 gene directed high levels of IFN synthesis in Tat-expressing cells, while this promoter was not responsive to tumor necrosis factor alpha-mediated activation.
ISG15-LTR-IFN hybrid gene inserted into the retrovirus vector was transduced into Jurkat and U937 cells.
Selected transfected clones produced low levels of IFN A -LRB- IFNA -RRB- constitutively, and their abilities to express interleukin-2 and interleukin-2 receptor upon stimulation with phytohemagglutinin and phorbol myristate acetate were retained.
Enhancement of IFNA synthesis observed upon HIV-1 infection resulted in significant inhibition of HIV-1 replication for a period of at least 30 days.
Virus isolated from IFNA-producing cells was able to replicate in the U937 cells but did not replicate efficiently in U937 cells transduced with the IFNA gene.
Pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate, a potent inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- activation, prevents apoptosis in human promyelocytic leukemia HL-60 cells and thymocytes.
We examined the effect of pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate -LRB- PDTC -RRB-, which potently blocks the activation of nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB-, on the induction of apoptosis by a variety of agents.
Treatment of a human promyelocytic leukemia cell line, HL-60, with 10 micrograms/mL etoposide or 2 microM 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine induced NF-kappa B activation within 1 hr and subsequently caused apoptosis within 3-4 hr.
The simultaneous addition of 50-500 microM PDTC with these agents blocked NF-kappa B activation and completely abrogated both morphologically apoptotic changes and internucleosomal DNA fragmentation for up to 6 hr.
However, PDTC failed to inhibit the endonuclease activity contained in the whole cell lysates.
The inhibitory effect of PDTC was also observed in etoposide - and dexamethasone-induced apoptosis in human thymocytes at a concentration of 1-10 microM.
Since PDTC has both antioxidant and metal-ion chelating activities, we tested the effects of N-acetyl-L-cysteine -LRB- NAC -RRB- -LRB- antioxidant -RRB- or o-phenanthroline -LRB- OP -RRB- -LRB- metal-ion chelator -RRB- on the induction of apoptosis.
Pretreatment of HL-60 cells or thymocytes with 100-500 microM OP for 2 hr, but not 10-60 mM NAC, suppressed subsequent occurrence of apoptosis induced by etoposide.
A factor that regulates the class II major histocompatibility complex gene DPA is a member of a subfamily of zinc finger proteins that includes a Drosophila developmental control protein.
A novel DNA sequence element termed the J element involved in the regulated expression of class II major histocompatibility complex genes was recently described.
To study this element and its role in class II gene regulation further, a cDNA library was screened with oligonucleotide probes containing both the S element and the nearby J element of the human DPA gene.
Several DNA clones were obtained by this procedure, one of which, clone 18, is reported and characterized here.
It encodes a protein predicted to contain 688 amino acid residues, including 11 zinc finger motifs of the C2H2 type in the C-terminal region, that are Kruppel-like in the conservation of the H/C link sequence connecting them.
The 160 N-terminal amino acids in the nonfinger region of clone 18 are highly homologous with similar regions of several other human, mouse, and Drosophila sequences, defining a subfamily of Kruppel-like zinc finger proteins termed TAB -LRB- tramtrack -LSB- ttk -RSB- - associated box -RRB- here.
One of the Drosophila sequences, ttk, is a developmental control gene, while a second does not contain a zinc finger region but encodes a structure important in oocyte development.
An acidic activation domain is located between the N-terminal conserved region of clone 18 and its zinc fingers.
Antisense cDNA to clone 18 inhibited the expression of a reporter construct containing the DPA promoter, indicating its functional importance in the expression of this class II gene.
Glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis of lymphoid cells.
The induction of cell death in lymphoid cells by glucocorticoids is one of the earliest and most thoroughly studied models of apoptosis.
The role of chromatin degradation and endonucleases in the apoptotic process has been closely studied, as well as the involvement of several oncogenes in glucocorticoid-induced cell lysis.
In addition, the clinical importance of glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis in the treatment of lymphoid neoplasms has recently received increased attention.
Nonpituitary human prolactin gene transcription is independent of Pit-1 and differentially controlled in lymphocytes and in endometrial stroma.
Expression of the human PRL -LRB- hPRL -RRB- gene in extrapituitary sites such as the uterus -LRB- decidualized endometrial stroma and myometrium -RRB- and cells of the hematopoietic lineage is directed by an alternative promoter which is located approximately 6 kilobases -LRB- kb -RRB- upstream of the pituitary-specific start site.
In order to delineate the tissue-specific mechanisms governing the control of nonpituitary PRL gene expression, we have cloned and sequenced 3 kb 5' - flanking DNA of the upstream decidual/lymphoid -LRB- dPRL -RRB- promoter.
Based on sequence homology we identified two binding motifs for Pit-1 and seven half-sites for glucocorticoid receptor/progesterone receptor -LRB- PR -RRB- binding.
We demonstrate in a variety of cell types, including lymphocytes and endometrial stroma, that Pit-1 is not involved in the regulation of dPRL promoter/reporter gene constructs carrying 3 kb 5' - flanking DNA.
Our experiments also show that activated PR does not confer direct transcriptional control on the dPRL promoter.
When we compared the activity of the transfected dPRL promoter in PRL-secreting and nonsecreting lymphoid cells, we found that the 3 kb 5' - flanking region of the dPRL promoter did not contain elements restricting expression to only those lymphocytes that produce PRL but allowed expression of fusion reporter genes irrespective of the status of the endogenous PRL gene.
This was in sharp contrast to endometrial cells where 3 kb 5' - flanking DNA conferred strong transcriptional activation on the dPRL promoter in decidualized endometrial stromal cells actively secreting PRL, but did not allow transcription in undifferentiated non-PRL-secreting endometrial stromal cells.
Activation of early growth response 1 gene transcription and pp90rsk during induction of monocytic differentiation.
The present work has studied mechanisms responsible for induction of early growth response 1 -LRB- EGR-1 -RRB- gene expression during monocytic differentiation of U-937 myeloid leukemia cells.
Differentiation of U-937 cells with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB-, an activator of the serine/threonine protein kinase C, was associated with transcriptional activation of EGR-1 promoter-reporter constructs.
The EGR-1 promoter contains six CC -LRB- A/T -RRB- 6GG -LRB- CArG -RRB- motifs.
The two 5' - most distal CArG sequences conferred TPA inducibility.
In contrast, there was little effect of TPA on EGR-1 transcription in a TPA-resistant U-937 cell variant, designated TUR.
Treatment of both U-937 and TUR cells with okadaic acid, an inhibitor of serine/threonine protein phosphatases 1 and 2A, was associated with induction of monocytic differentiation and EGR-1 transcription through the 5' - most CArG element.
Since these findings supported the involvement of serine/threonine protein phosphorylation in the regulation of EGR-1 expression, we studied activation of the 40S ribosomal protein S6 serine/threonine kinases, pp70S6K and pp90rsk.
Although both kinases participate in regulating cell growth, there was no detectable activation of pp70S6K during TPA - or okadaic acid-induced monocytic differentiation.
Moreover, rapamycin, an inhibitor of pp70S6K activation, had no effect on induction of EGR-1 expression.
In contrast, analysis of pp90rsk activity by phosphorylation of a peptide derived from S6 protein demonstrated stimulation of this kinase in TPA-treated U-937, and not TUR, cells.
Okadaic acid treatment of both cell types was associated with activation of pp90rsk.
Differential regulation of proto-oncogenes c-jun and c-fos in T lymphocytes activated through CD28.
The T cell surface molecule CD28 binds to ligands on accessory cells and APCs, playing an important costimulatory role in the response of T cells to Ags.
Our knowledge of the intracellular signaling pathways coupled to this receptor is incomplete.
In this paper, we report that cross-linking of CD28 -LRB- but not CD2, CD5, LFA-1, or CD7 -RRB- leads to an elevation of c-jun mRNA, with only minimal activation of c-fos expression.
CD28-dependent induction of c-jun expression requires protein tyrosine kinase activity, but does not depend on activation of a phorbol ester-responsive protein kinase C or elevation of cytosolic calcium.
Constitutive nuclear NF-kappa B in cells of the monocyte lineage.
In monocytes, the nuclear factor NF-kappa B has been invoked as an important transcription factor in the expression of cytokine genes, of cell-surface receptors and in the expression of human immunodeficiency virus.
In such cells, DNA binding activity of NF-kappa B can be detected without intentional stimulation.
In our studies, cells of the human monocytic line Mono Mac 6, cultured in medium containing fetal-calf serum and low levels of lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-, also exhibit such ` constitutive' NF-kappa B, as demonstrated by mobility-shift analysis of nuclear extracts.
This nuclear NF-kappa B was still present when contaminant LPS was removed by ultrafiltration and when serum was omitted.
Protein-DNA complexes of constitutive NF-kappa B are similar in mobility to the LPS-induced NF-kappa B and both are recognized by an antibody specific to the p50 subunit of NF-kappa B..
By contrast, treatment of cells with pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate -LRB- PDTC -RRB- will only block LPS-induced NF-kappa B, but not the constitutive binding protein.
Using LPS-free and serum-free conditions, constitutive NF-kappa B can be detected in different cell lines of the monocytic lineage -LRB- HL60, U937, THP-1, Mono Mac 1 and Mono Mac 6 -RRB-, but not in Molt 4 T cells or K562 stem cells.
When ordered according to stage of maturation, the amount of constitutive NF-kappa B was not increased in more mature cell lines.
Furthermore, when inducing differentiation in Mono Mac 6 cells, with vitamin D3, no change in constitutive or inducible NF-kappa B can be detected.
Analysis of primary cells revealed substantial constitutive NF-kappa B-binding activity in blood monocytes, pleural macrophages and alveolar macrophages.
The level of constitutive NF-kappa B in these cells is variable and is frequently found to be lower in the more mature macrophages.
Constitutive NF-kappa B was not maintained by autocrine action of cytokines TNF, interleukin 6, interleukin 10, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor or macrophage colony-stimulating factor, since neutralizing antibodies did not reduce constitutive DNA-binding activity.
Furthermore, blockade of prostaglandin or leukotriene biosynthesis did not affect constitutive NF-kappa B..
-LRB- ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS -RRB-.
ZAP-70 tyrosine kinase, CD45, and T cell receptor involvement in UV - and H2O2-induced T cell signal transduction.
UV irradiation and H2O2 treatment of T lymphocytes induce protein tyrosine phosphorylation and Ca2 + signals similar to those observed following biological stimulation.
We have examined the role of cell surface molecules in these responses.
Normal T lymphocytes whose surface expression of CD3 was depleted showed impaired UV-induced tyrosine phosphorylation and Ca2 + signals.
Similarly, Jurkat T cell lines deficient in CD3 or CD45 expression also gave impaired UV responses.
However, all these cell types still gave strong Ca2 + and tyrosine phosphorylation responses to H2O2.
The T cell tyrosine kinase ZAP-70 was found to be highly responsive to UV and H2O2 treatment.
ZAP-70 responsiveness to UV required expression of both CD3 and CD45, whereas only CD3 was required for the response to H2O2.
UV-induced activation of NF-kappa B was blocked by CD3 depletion, indicating the importance of such cell surface molecules in biological responses to UV.
In nonlymphoid cells, the epidermal growth factor receptor displayed increased tyrosine phosphorylation within seconds of UV irradiation.
Inhibition of NF-kappa B by sodium salicylate and aspirin -LSB- see comments -RSB-.
The transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- is critical for the inducible expression of multiple cellular and viral genes involved in inflammation and infection including interleukin-1 -LRB- IL-1 -RRB-, IL-6, and adhesion molecules.
The anti-inflammatory drugs sodium salicylate and aspirin inhibited the activation of NF-kappa B, which further explains the mechanism of action of these drugs.
This inhibition prevented the degradation of the NF-kappa B inhibitor, I kappa B, and therefore NF-kappa B was retained in the cytosol.
Sodium salicylate and aspirin also inhibited NF-kappa B-dependent transcription from the Ig kappa enhancer and the human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- in transfected T cells.
Effects of prostaglandin E2 on Th0-type human T cell clones : modulation of functions of nuclear proteins involved in cytokine production.
The effects of prostaglandin E2 -LRB- PGE2 -RRB- on cytokine production and proliferation of the CD4 + human helper T cell clone SP-B21 were investigated.
In cells stimulated with anti-CD3 mAb, PGE2 inhibited cell proliferation and the production of all the cytokines examined.
Addition of rIL-2 fully restored the proliferative response and partially restored the production of IL-4 and IL-5, but not that of other cytokines.
In contrast, in cells stimulated with phorbol myristate acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- / A23187, PGE2 enhanced the production of IL-4 and IL-5, and only partially inhibited the production of other cytokines.
Therefore, the effects of PGE2 vary depending on the mode of T cell activation, and the IL-4 and IL-5 are regulated differently from other cytokines.
In a mobility shift assay, only the NF-kappa B -LRB- p50/p50 -RRB- homodimer was observed in a complex formed with the kappa B sequence in unstimulated SP-B21 cells.
When cells were stimulated with anti-CD3 mAb or PMA/A23187, a complex formation of NF-kappa B -LRB- p50/p65 -RRB- heterodimer with the kappa B sequence was induced.
Interestingly, PGE2 or di-butyryl -LRB- Bt2 -RRB- cAMP abolished the binding of NF-kappa B -LRB- p50/p65 -RRB- heterodimer to the kappa B sequence in cells stimulated with anti-CD3 mAb but not with PMA/A23187.
However, the inhibition of the T cell activation signals by PGE2 is selective.
PGE2 enhanced the complex formation with NF-AT, AP-1 and CLE0 sequences when the cells were activated by either anti-CD3 mAb or PMA/A23187 stimulation.
Long-term inositol phosphate release, but not tyrosine kinase activity, correlates with IL-2 secretion and NF-AT induction in anti-CD3-activated peripheral human T lymphocytes.
The cascade of events within the first few minutes of T cell stimulation has been well characterized.
Although many second messengers have been shown to be necessary and sufficient for T cell activation in a number of model systems, the rate-limiting step in peripheral T cells has not been demonstrated.
To model effective versus ineffective CD3-mediated stimulation in peripheral T cells, we used two anti-CD3 mAbs that differ in their ability to stimulate purified T cells : OKT3, which causes early second messenger generation but is unable to activate T cells without a second signal, and 64.1, which stimulates T cell proliferation on its own.
We found that tyrosine kinase activity was similar for both mAbs over a period of hours.
However, the inositol phosphate response was stronger for 64.1 than for OKT3.
To tie these events to gene activation, we measured NF-kappa B and NF-AT activity in the nucleus after anti-CD3 stimulation.
Both stimuli induced the appearance of the NF-kappa B components -LRB- c-Rel, p65 -LRB- RelA -RRB-, and p50 -LRB- NF-kappa B1 -RRB- -RRB- and NF-kappa B DNA binding activity in the nucleus.
However, only 64.1 induced NF-AT in the nucleus, correlating with its ability to activate T cells.
Thus, NF-AT induction and IL-2 secretion were correlated with the levels of inositol phosphate release but not with gross levels of tyrosine kinase activity induced late following the response.
On the other hand, NF-kappa B induction and IL-2 receptor expression occurred even with the smaller second messenger response generated by OKT3.
DNA-binding and transcriptional regulatory properties of hepatic leukemia factor -LRB- HLF -RRB- and the t -LRB- 17 ; 19 -RRB- acute lymphoblastic leukemia chimera E2A-HLF.
The t -LRB- 17 ; 19 -RRB- translocation in acute lymphoblastic leukemias results in creation of E2A-hepatic leukemia factor -LRB- HLF -RRB- chimeric proteins that contain the DNA-binding and protein dimerization domains of the basic leucine zipper -LRB- bZIP -RRB- protein HLF fused to a portion of E2A proteins with transcriptional activation properties.
An in vitro binding site selection procedure was used to determine DNA sequences preferentially bound by wild-type HLF and chimeric E2A-HLF proteins isolated from various t -LRB- 17 ; 19 -RRB- - bearing leukemias.
All were found to selectively bind the consensus sequence 5' - GTTACGTAAT-3' with high affinity.
Wild-type and chimeric HLF proteins also bound closely related sites identified previously for bZIP proteins of both the proline - and acidic amino acid-rich -LRB- PAR -RRB- and C/EBP subfamilies ; however, E2A-HLF proteins were significantly less tolerant of certain deviations from the HLF consensus binding site.
These differences were directly attributable to loss of an HLF ancillary DNA-binding domain in all E2A-HLF chimeras and were further exacerbated by a zipper mutation in one isolate.
Both wild-type and chimeric HLF proteins displayed transcriptional activator properties in lymphoid and nonlymphoid cells on reporter genes containing HLF or C/EBP consensus binding sites.
But on reporter genes with nonoptimal binding sites, their transcriptional properties diverged and E2A-HLF competitively inhibited activation by wild-type PAR proteins.
Inhibition of activation of transcription factor AP-1 by CD28 signalling in human T-cells.
Co-stimulation of T-lymphocytes by T-cell receptor -LRB- TcR -RRB- occupancy and activation of the CD28 surface molecule results in enhanced proliferation and interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- production.
The increase in IL-2 gene expression triggered by CD28 involves a kappa B-like sequence in the 5' - regulatory region of the IL-2 promoter, called CD28-responsive element.
Stimulation of T-cells by agonistic anti-CD28 antibodies in conjunction with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- - or TcR-derived signals induces the enhanced activation of the transcription factor NF-kappa B..
Here we report that CD28 engagement, however, exerts opposite effects on the transcription factor AP-1.
Whereas anti-CD28 together with PMA increased the DNA binding and trans-activation activity of NF-kappa B, PMA-induced activation of AP-1 was significantly suppressed.
The inhibitory effect exerted by anti-CD28 was observed at the level of DNA binding as well as in functional reporter-gene assays.
Positive and negative regulation of IL-2 gene expression : role of multiple regulatory sites.
Interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- is an important lymphokine required in the process of T cell activation, proliferation, clonal expansion and differentiation.
The IL-2 gene displays both T cell specific and inducible expression : it is only expressed in CD4 + T cells after antigenic or mitogenic stimulation.
Several cis-acting regulatory sites are required for induction of the IL-2 gene after stimulation.
In this study, we have analysed the function of these cis-acting regulatory sites in the context of the native IL-2 enhancer and promoter sequence.
Two other sites display disparate effects on IL-2 gene expression in different T leukemia cell lines : the distal purine box -LRB- -291 to -277 -RRB- and the proximal purine box sites -LRB- -145 to -128 -RRB-.
Finally, the AP-1 -LRB- -186 to -176 -RRB- and the kappa B sites -LRB- -206 to -195 -RRB- respond to different cellular activation in EL4 cells.
The AP-1 site mediated the response to PMA stimulation while the kappa B site responded to IL-1 stimulation.
Superantigens activate HIV-1 gene expression in monocytic cells.
Binding of superantigens to MHC class II molecules results in transduction of biochemical signals leading to cellular activation and gene expression.
We demonstrate that the staphylococcal superantigens toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 -LRB- TSST-1 -RRB- and staphylococcal enterotoxin A -LRB- SEA -RRB- activate HIV-1-LTR-driven transcription of chloramphenicol acetyl transferase in the human monocytic cell line THP-1.
Induction of HIV-1-LTR-driven transcription in THP-1 cells by superantigens was associated with the induction of nuclear factor-kappa B DNA-binding activity.
Superantigens also increased viral protein secretion from the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor-pretreated chronically infected human monocytic cell line U1.
Induction of HIV-1 gene expression in monocytic cells by superantigens occurred via tumor necrosis factor-alpha-dependent and - independent mechanisms.
The state of maturation of monocytes into macrophages determines the effects of IL-4 and IL-13 on HIV replication.
The molecular mechanisms of the effects of IL-4 and IL-13 on HIV infection in human monocytes as they matured into monocyte-derived macrophages over 7 days were investigated using HIV-1 -LRB- BaL -RRB-, and low passage clinical strains.
IL-4 and IL-13 up-regulated the expression of both genomic and spliced HIV mRNA in monocytes cultured on Teflon, as determined by Northern analysis and p24 Ag assay.
Using a nuclear run-on assay, IL-4 stimulation was shown to enhance transcription by two - to threefold.
IL-4 stimulated nuclear factor-kappaB nuclear translocation and binding before enhancement of HIV RNA expression.
Conversely, IL-4 and IL-13 markedly and significantly inhibited HIV replication at the transcriptional level in monocyte-derived macrophages, and this occurred whether these cytokines were added before or after HIV infection.
The reversal from stimulation to inhibition occurred after 3 to 5 days of adherence to plastic.
IL-4 had no significant effect on HIV reverse transcription.
The effect of both cytokines on the monocyte maturation/differentiation -LRB- CD11b, CD13, and CD26 -RRB- and other macrophage markers -LRB- CD14 and CD68 -RRB- was examined.
IL-4 enhanced CD11b, but inhibited CD26 expression and delayed CD13 loss.
IL-13 had similar effects on CD11b and CD13, but no effect on CD26.
Engagement of the Lewis X antigen -LRB- CD15 -RRB- results in monocyte activation.
We previously reported that monocyte adhesion to tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- - treated endothelial cells increased expression of tissue factor and CD36 on monocytes.
We used cytokine production as a readout for monocyte activation and found that CD15 cross-linking induced TNF-alpha release from peripheral blood monocytes and cells from the monocytic cell line MM6.
Quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction -LRB- RT-PCR -RRB- showed an increase in steady-state TNF-alpha mRNA after 3 to 4 hours of cross-linking.
CD15 cross-linking also concomitantly increased interleukin-1 beta -LRB- IL-1 beta -RRB- mRNA, while no apparent change was observed in the levels of beta-actin mRNA, indicating specificity.
To examine transcriptional regulation of cytokine genes by CD15 engagement, a CAT plasmid reporter construct containing IL-1 beta promoter/enhancer sequences was introduced into MM6.
Subsequent cross-linking of CD15 increased CAT activity.
CD15 engagement by monoclonal antibody also attenuated IL-1 beta transcript degradation, demonstrating that signaling via CD15 also had posttranscriptional effects.
Nuclear extracts of anti-CD15 cross-linked cells demonstrated enhanced levels of the transcriptional factor activator protein-1, minimally changed nuclear factor-kappa B, and did not affect SV40 promoter specific protein-1.
We conclude that engagement of CD15 on monocytes results in monocyte activation.
V3 loop of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 suppresses interleukin 2-induced T cell growth -LSB- published erratum appears in AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses 1997 May 1 ; 13 -LRB- 7 -RRB- :633 -RSB-.
We tested the effect of three linear or two loop peptides derived from the V3 region of the HTLV-III BH10 clone or the SF2 strain of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 on IL-2-driven T cell proliferation.
V3-BH10, which consists of 42 amino acids and has a loop structure, suppressed IL-2-driven proliferation of all IL-2-dependent cells -LSB- Kit225, ED-40515 -LRB- + -RRB-, KT-3, 7-day PHA-blasts, and fresh peripheral blood mononuclear cells -RSB- tested, whereas it did not suppress the cell growth of IL-2-independent cell lines -LRB- Hut102, Molt-4, and Jurkat -RRB-.
The treatment with anti-V3 loop monoclonal antibody -LRB- 902 antibody -RRB- completely abolished the suppressive effect of V3-BH10.
In addition, V3-BH10 generated the arrest of Kit225 cells and also purified CD8-positive lymphocytes in G1 phase in the presence of IL-2.
Neither chromatin condensation nor DNA fragmentation was detected in Kit225 cells cultured with V3-BH10 and IL-2.
V3-BH10 neither blocked radiolabeled IL-2 binding to IL-2 receptors nor affected tyrosyl phosphorylation of several cellular proteins -LRB- p120, p98, p96, p54, and p38 -RRB-, which is immediately induced by IL-2 stimulation.
However, V3-BH10 enhanced IL-2-induced mRNA expression of c-fos but not c-myc or junB.
Nuclear factor-kappaB activation in human monocytes stimulated with lipopolysaccharide is inhibited by fibroblast conditioned medium and exogenous PGE2.
Previously, we showed that fibroblast conditioned medium -LRB- FCM -RRB- is able to inhibit both TNF mRNA accumulation and protein release in peripheral blood-derived human monocytes -LRB- PBM -RRB- stimulated with lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-.
In this study we have investigated the effect of FCM on the LPS-induced DNA-binding activity of NF-kappaB, by means of electrophoretic shift assay -LRB- EMSA -RRB-.
We provide evidence that FCM strongly inhibits the LPS-induced NF-kappaB activation in PBM.
Furthermore, we show that exogenous PGE2 mimics the NF-kappaB inhibitory effect of FCM.
On the other hand, FCM produced in the presence of indomethacin does not inhibit NF-kappaB activation by LPS.
Transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulation of erythroid gene expression in anthracycline-induced differentiation of human erythroleukemic cells.
Aclacinomycin -LRB- ACLA -RRB- and doxorubicin -LRB- DOX -RRB- were used at subtoxic concentrations to induce erythroid differentiation in the human leukemic cell line K562.
Cell hemoglobinization was accompanied by the increased expression of genes encoding gamma-globin and porphobilinogen deaminase -LRB- PBGD -RRB-, an enzyme of heme synthesis.
By using run-on assays, ACLA was shown to induce an enhancement of the transcription of erythroid genes, including gamma-globin, PBGD, erythropoietin receptor, and GATA-1 transcription factor.
In contrast, in DOX-treated cells, the transcription rate of these genes was unchanged in comparison with control cells.
Finally, GATA-1 protein level was shown to be increased in ACLA-treated but not in DOX-treated cells.
Indeed, erythroid gene expression was demonstrated to be regulated transcriptionally by ACLA and mainly posttranscriptionally by DOX.
Induction of activator protein -LRB- AP -RRB- -1 and nuclear factor-kappaB by CD28 stimulation involves both phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and acidic sphingomyelinase signals.
A major obstacle in understanding the signaling events that follow CD28 receptor ligation arises from the fact that CD28 acts as a costimulus to TCR engagement, making it difficult to assess the relative contribution of CD28 signals as distinct from those of the TCR.
To overcome this problem, we have exploited the observation that activated human T cell blasts can be stimulated via the CD28 surface molecule in the absence of antigenic challenge ; thus, we have been able to observe the response of normal T cells to CD28 activation in isolation.
Using this system, we observed that CD28 stimulation by B7-transfected CHO cells induced a proliferative response in T cells that was not accompanied by measurable IL-2 production.
However, subsequent analysis of transcription factor generation revealed that B7 stimulation induced both activator protein-1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB- and nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- complexes, but not NF-AT.
In contrast, engagement of the TCR by class II MHC/superantigen, either with or without CD28 ligation, resulted in the induction of NF-AT, AP-1, and NF-kappaB as well as IL-2 production.
Using selective inhibitors, we investigated the signaling pathways involved in the CD28-mediated induction of AP-1 and NF-kappaB.
This revealed that NF-kappaB generation was sensitive to chloroquine, an inhibitor of acidic sphingomyelinase, but not to the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor, wortmannin.
In contrast, AP-1 generation was inhibited by wortmannin and was also variably sensitive to chloroquine.
Second messenger up-regulation of androgen receptor gene transcription is absent in androgen insensitive human prostatic carcinoma cell lines, PC-3 and DU-145.
A theoretical pathway of transcriptional regulation of the androgen receptor -LRB- AR -RRB- gene is via a cAMP response element -LRB- CRE -RRB- present in its promoter region -LRB- -508 to -501 -RRB-.
After 20 h of stimulation with 8-bromo-cAMP, AR mRNA was upregulated in LNCaP but not in either PC-3 or DU-145 cell lines.
The ability to regulate AR gene transcription via the second messenger pathway is lost in the PC-3 and DU-145 cell lines.
A novel immunosuppressive factor in bovine colostrum blocks activation of the interleukin 2 gene enhancer at the NFAT site.
A factor in bovine colostrum -LRB- colostrum inhibitory factor, CIF -RRB- inhibits interleukin 2 -LRB- IL2 -RRB- production in activated T helper cells by blocking the accumulation of IL2 mRNA.
These contained the luciferase gene under the control of either the human IL2 upstream enhancer region -LRB- segments -326 to +45 -RRB- or three repeats of the NFAT element contained within it -LRB- segments -255 to -285 -RRB-.
Expression of luciferase in these cells was induced by phorbol myristate acetate plus a calcium ionophore.
CIF inhibited induction of either construct as did cyclosporine, which is known to block activation of the NFAT element.
CIF failed to inhibit several other enhancer elements.
The NFAT-controlled luciferase gene system distinguishes CIF from other T cell inhibitory activities present in colostrum, in particular, TGF beta 1 and TGF beta 2 and the glucocorticoids.
Stably transfected Jurkat cells behaved similarly to the transiently transfected ones with respect to inhibition by CIF and cyclosporine.
The NFAT-luc assay is a useful technique for the rapid, sensitive measurement of CIF or other immunosuppressants with a similar mode of action.
Evidence for lowered induction of nuclear factor kappa B in activated human T lymphocytes during aging.
Transcription factor NF kappa B -LRB- nuclear factor kappa B -RRB- is induced in T lymphocytes from young individuals following activation with a variety of stimuli including anti-CD3, phorbol myristate acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB-, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB-.
In contrast, activated T lymphocytes from older individuals show a significant reduction in the induction of NF kappa B in response to the same stimuli.
The age-related decline in induction of NF kappa B could not be attributed to alteration in the composition of subunits, p50 and p65 were found to be the predominant subunits of induced NF kappa B in T cells from young as well as elderly donors.
Interaction of HTLV-I Tax with the human proteasome : implications for NF-kappa B induction.
The human T-cell leukemia virus type I -LRB- HTLV-I -RRB- has been etiologically associated with the development of the adult T-cell leukemia -LRB- ATL -RRB- as well as degenerative neurologic syndrome termed tropical spastic paraparesis -LRB- TSP -RRB-.
Tax does not bind directly to DNA but rather deregulates the activity of cellular transcription factors.
One family of host transcription factors whose activity is altered by Tax includes NF-kappa B/Rel.
These transcription factors are post-transcriptionally regulated by their assembly with a second family of inhibitory proteins termed I kappa B that serve to sequester the NF-kappa B/Rel complexes in the cytoplasm.
Upon cellular activation, I kappa B alpha is phosphorylated, polyubiquitinated, and degraded in the proteasome.
This proteolytic event liberates NF-kappa B, permitting its rapid translocation into the nucleus where it binds to its cognate enhancer elements.
Similarly, the p105 precursor of the NF-kappa B p50 subunit is also post-translationally processed in the proteasome.
We identified a physical interaction between Tax and the HsN3 subunit of the human proteasome.
Regulation of sialoadhesin expression on rat macrophages.
Induction by glucocorticoids and enhancement by IFN-beta, IFN-gamma, IL-4, and lipopolysaccharide.
Sialoadhesin is a macrophage-restricted member of the Ig superfamily that mediates adhesion with lymphoid and myeloid cells.
It is expressed on a subpopulation of macrophages in lymphoid tissues and in chronic inflammation -LRB- e.g., during autoimmune diseases -RRB-.
We have studied the regulation of sialoadhesin expression in vitro and show that glucocorticoids -LRB- GC -RRB- induce sialoadhesin expression on freshly isolated rat macrophages and the rat macrophage cell line R2.
The cytokines IFN-beta, IFN-gamma, IL-4, and LPS, although unable to induce sialoadhesin expression by themselves, were able to enhance GC-mediated induction of sialoadhesin.
Sialoadhesin expression was functional as shown by cell adhesion assays with human RBCs.
Comparison of the different combinations of GC and cytokines/LPS revealed differences in the level of GC-dependent enhancement of sialoadhesin expression, with IFN-beta and IL-4 being more potent than IFN-gamma and LPS.
Moreover, the effects of IFN-gamma and LPS could be reproduced by priming, whereas IFN-beta and IL-4 were required simultaneously with GC.
The regulation of sialoadhesin expression was mediated by the GC receptor, and not by mineralocorticoid receptor, as shown by inhibition experiments with specific antagonists.
Finally, it is demonstrated that macrophages in the adrenal gland, the major site of endogenous GC production, express sialoadhesin.
This study demonstrates that GC act as a primary inducer of sialoadhesin expression on rat macrophages, and that the response can be enhanced by IFN-beta, T cell-derived cytokines, or LPS.
Selenium-mediated inhibition of transcription factor NF-kappa B and HIV-1 LTR promoter activity.
The eukaryotic transcription factor NF-kappa B is involved in the inducible expression of various inflammatory genes as well as in HIV-1 replication.
Activation of NF-kappa B is induced by prooxidants and several stimuli eliciting oxidative stress, such as cytokines, lipopolysaccharide, UV irradiation and other mediators.
Various antioxidants inhibit NF-kappa B activation in response to these stimuli.
In this study, we have investigated the effects of selenium, an integral component of glutathione peroxidase -LRB- GPX -RRB-, on NF-kappa B activation.
In selenium-deprived Jurkat and ESb-L T lymphocytes, supplementation of selenium led to a substantial increase of GPX activity.
Analysis of DNA binding revealed that NF-kappa B activation in response to TNF was significantly inhibited under these conditions.
Likewise, reporter gene assays using luciferase constructs driven by the HIV-1 long terminal repeat showed a dose-dependent inhibition of NF-kappa B controlled gene expression by selenium.
The effects of selenium were specific for NF-kappa B, since the activity of the transcription factor AP-1 was not suppressed.
Involvement of tyrosine phosphorylation in endothelial adhesion molecule induction.
Induction of endothelial adhesion molecules by the cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF -RRB- can occur independently of protein kinase C and activation of a protein tyrosine kinase -LRB- PTK -RRB- has recently been implicated in the upregulation of vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 -LRB- VCAM-1 -RRB- by interleukin-4 -LRB- IL-4 -RRB- on endothelial cells.
We demonstrate that the PTK inhibitors herbimycin A or genistein suppress induction of endothelial VCAM-1 and E-selectin, as well as subsequent monocytic cell adhesion to endothelial cells stimulated by TNF.
Transcription specific differences visualized by fluorescence in situ hybridization pattern on interphase nuclei of different cell types.
Application of a `` formamide free '' and thus `` material preserving '' in situ hybridization technique using the cDNA of the myf3 gene revealed the following results : Human rhabdomyosarcoma cells, characterized by a high expression of myf3 show intensive hybridization signals in their interphase.
RNase treatment prior to hybridization considerably reduces the size of this signals.
In comparison, isolated nuclei of human lymphocytes in which no need for the expression of this gene exists, show barely hybridization signals.
Correspondingly, RNase treatment had no effect on hybridization pattern at all.
In conclusion an increased transcription efficiency of a cell type specific gene is accompanied by a higher hybridization accessibility in the corresponding cell nuclei.
Alpha 4 beta 1 -LRB- CD49d/CD29 -RRB- integrin costimulation of human T cells enhances transcription factor and cytokine induction in the absence of altered sensitivity to anti-CD3 stimulation.
The integrin alpha 4 beta 1 can provide a costimulus to induce IL-2 secretion and IL-2R expression leading to enhanced proliferation of purified, peripheral blood T cells.
Similar to expression of IL-2, we demonstrated that recombinant vascular-cell adhesion molecule-1, when co-immobilized with anti-CD3 mAb, significantly enhanced the induction of transcription factors NF-AT, AP-1, and NF-kappa B as determined by electromobility shift assays.
alpha 4 beta 1 ligation alone had no effect on transcription factor binding.
The requirements for induction of transcription factors reflected the requirements for the secretion of multiple cytokines, including IL-2, TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma, and granulocyte macrophage-CSF.
In contrast to freshly isolated T cells, in vitro-cultured T cells did not require costimulation for cytokine secretion in response to anti-CD3 alone.
Comparison of the dose response to anti-CD3 stimulation demonstrated that half-maximal induction of IL-2 was achieved using the same dose of anti-CD3 for both freshly isolated and cultured T cells.
Furthermore, the dose of OKT3 required to achieve half-maximal activation was the same using PMA or different concentrations of alpha 4 beta 1 ligands.
Therefore, costimulation by alpha 4 beta 1 ligands was not due to stabilization of the interaction of the cells with its substrate.
We conclude, rather, that alpha 4 beta 1 in freshly isolated T cells delivers a distinct signal that synergizes early with signals initiated by TCR/CD3 ligation to induce DNA binding of multiple transcription factors required for cytokine gene induction.
Apoptosis mediated by HIV protease is preceded by cleavage of Bcl-2.
Expression of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV -RRB- protease in cultured cells leads to apoptosis, preceded by cleavage of bcl-2, a key negative regulator of cell death.
In contrast, a high level of bcl-2 protects cells in vitro and in vivo from the viral protease and prevents cell death following HIV infection of human lymphocytes, while reducing the yields of viral structural proteins, infectivity, and tumor necrosis factor alpha.
We present a model for HIV replication in which the viral protease depletes the infected cells of bcl-2, leading to oxidative stress-dependent activation of NF kappa B, a cellular factor required for HIV transcription, and ultimately to cell death.
Purified bcl-2 is cleaved by HIV protease between phenylalanine 112 and alanine 113.
Cytokine-modulating activity of tepoxalin, a new potential antirheumatic.
Tepoxalin is a new dual cyclooxygenase/5-lipoxygenase anti-inflammatory compound currently under clinical investigation.
It has been shown to possess anti-inflammatory activity in a variety of animal models and more recently to inhibit IL-2 induced signal transduction.
The current study was conducted to evaluate the cytokine modulating activity of tepoxalin and the role of iron in these effects.
In human peripheral blood mononuclear cells -LRB- PBMC -RRB- stimulated with OKT3/PMA, tepoxalin inhibited lymphocyte proliferation with an IC50 of 6 microM.
Additionally, it inhibited the production of LTB4 -LRB- IC50 = 0.5 microM -RRB- and the cytokines IL-2, IL-6 and TNF alpha -LRB- IC50 = 10-12 microM -RRB-.
Cytotoxicity was not demonstrated at these concentrations.
Add-back experiments with either cytokines -LRB- IL-2 or IL-6 -RRB-, LTB4 or conditioned media failed to restore the proliferative response in the presence of tepoxalin.
However, the concurrent addition of iron -LRB- in the form of ferrous or ferric chloride and other iron salts -RRB- reversed the inhibition of proliferation caused by tepoxalin.
Tepoxalin also inhibits the activation of NF kappa B, a transcription factor which acts on several cytokine genes.
Tepoxalin 's effect on NF kappa B is also reversed by the addition of iron salts.
Activation protein 1-dependent transcriptional activation of interleukin 2 gene by Ca2 + / calmodulin kinase type IV/Gr.
Here we show that CaMKIV/Gr induces the transcription factor activation protein 1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB- alone or in synergy with T cell mitogens and with the p21ras oncoprotein.
CaMKIV / Gr signaling is associated with transcriptional activation of c-fos but is independent of p21ras or calcineurin.
AP-1 is an integral component of the nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB- transcriptional complex, which is required for interleukin 2 gene expression in T cells.
We demonstrate that CaMKIV/Gr reconstitutes the capacity of the cytosolic component of NFAT to direct transcription from NFAT sites in non-T cells.
These results reveal a central role for CaMKIV/Gr as a Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - regulated activator of gene transcription in T lymphocytes.
Regulation of gene expression at early stages of B-cell and T-cell differentiation.
The expression of distinct sets of genes at different stages of B-lymphocyte and T-lymphocyte differentiation is controlled at the level of transcription.
A number of recent studies have described interactions between transcription factors in lymphocytes that provide new insights into mechanisms regulating gene expression.
These mechanisms include the assembly of higher order nucleoprotein complexes and other protein-protein interactions that enhance the functional specificity of transcriptional regulators in lymphocytes.
Gene transcription through activation of G-protein-coupled chemoattractant receptors.
Receptors for leukocyte chemoattractants, including chemokines, are traditionally considered to be responsible for the activation of special leukocyte functions such as chemotaxis, degranulation, and the release of superoxide anions.
Recently, these G-protein-coupled serpentine receptors have been found to transduce signals leading to gene transcription and translation in leukocytes.
Transcription factors, such as NF kappa B and AP-1, are activated upon stimulation of the cells with several chemoattractants at physiologically relevant concentrations.
Activation of transcription factors through these receptors involves G-protein coupling and the activation of protein kinases.
An alternatively spliced isoform of the Spi-B transcription factor.
Spi-B is an Ets transcription factor related to the oncoprotein Spi-1 / PU .1 and highly expressed in B lymphoid cells.
The Ets proteins share a conserved Ets domain that mediates specific DNA binding.
Spi-B binds DNA sequences containing a core 5' - GGAA-3' and activates transcription through this motif.
Here, we describe the characterization of an alternatively spliced variant of Spi-B, named deltaSpi-B, which has lost the Ets domain.
In B lymphoid cells, deltaspi-B and spi-B mRNAs were present simultaneously in a ratio of around 10 %.
DeltaSpi-B product was not able to bind DNA and was recovered in cytoplasmic cellular extracts.
Induction of CIITA and modification of in vivo HLA-DR promoter occupancy in normal thymic epithelial cells treated with IFN-gamma : similarities and distinctions with respect to HLA-DR-constitutive B cells.
In this study, the IFN-gamma induction of MHC class II gene expression in primary cultures of thymic epithelial cells -LRB- TEC -RRB- was analyzed.
It was found that the MHC class II gene expression was associated with the de novo transcription of the gene encoding the CIITA trans-activator, a crucial MHC class II gene regulatory factor.
Furthermore, the anatomy of interaction between the MHC class II DRA promoter and corresponding binding factors was analyzed by in vivo DNAse I footprint.
It was found that treatment with IFN-gamma induces changes in the occupancy of the DRA gene regulatory sequences by nuclear factors.
The resulting occupancy displays strong similarities with the one observed in the MHC class II-constitutive B cells, represented by both the Burkitt lymphoma line Raji and normal tonsil - derived B cells.
However, some peculiar differences were observed between the TEC, either IFN-gamma-induced or not, and the constitutive B cells.
IL-10 inhibits nuclear factor-kappa B/Rel nuclear activity in CD3-stimulated human peripheral T lymphocytes.
IL-10 markedly reduces nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappa B/Rel nuclear activity induced in PBMC by stimulation with the anti-CD3 mAb OKT3.
The inhibition is exerted specifically on the NF-kappa B/Rel activation induced by mAb OKT3, and not that produced by PMA.
As judged by supershifting the DNA-protein complexes with Abs recognizing specific components of the NF-kappa B/Rel protein family, the p50/p65 -LRB- Rel A -RRB- heterodimeric form of NF-kappa B is primarily affected.
The maximal effect is observed at the IL-10 concentration of 20 U/ml.
IL-10 inhibitory activity is exerted on T lymphocytes and is mediated by monocytes.
Indeed, monocytes pretreated with IL-10 are able so inhibit NF-kappa B nuclear activity in purified T lymphocytes stimulated with OKT3.
On the other hand, the up-regulation of CD80 Ag, found on monocytes obtained from PBMC incubated with OKT3, is not detected after addition of IL-10, and the anti-CD28 mAb CLB-CD28 / 1 restores the NF-kappa B/Rel nuclear activity in IL-10-inhibited lymphocytes.
Our results demonstrate that IL-10 can inhibit the induction of NF-kappa B/Rel nuclear activity in CD3-stimulated T lymphocytes.
Interleukin 10 induced c-fos expression in human B cells by activation of divergent protein kinases.
IL-10 is a potent mediator of human B cell growth and plasma cell formation.
However, signal transduction of IL-10 in B cells is poorly understood.
B cells were purified from buffy coat preparations of healthy blood donors by positive selection using an anti CD20 monoclonal antibody and a MiniMACS separation unit.
B cells were prestimulated with SAC for 48 hrs.
Then, cells were incubated with medium or IL-10 -LRB- 100 ng/ml -RRB- for 10 to 120 min.
RNA was extracted by phenol/chloroform and c-fos expression was analyzed by PCR assisted mRNA assay.
A significant 2-4 fold increase of c-fos expression was observed within 30 min of stimulation with IL-10 -LRB- p < 0.01 -RRB-.
After 2 hrs c-fos expression declined to basal levels.
The effect of IL-10 was dose-dependent with a maximum stimulation using 100 ng/ml of IL-10.
The IL-10 effect on c-fos expression was not blocked by polymyxin B..
Using the tyrosine kinase inhibitor genistein -LRB- 10 microM -RRB- a complete inhibition of IL-10 induced c-fos expression was observed.
In addition, H-7 -LRB- 10 microM -RRB-, a specific inhibitor of serine/threonine kinases, significantly blocked IL-10 mediated c-fos expression -LRB- p < 0.05 -RRB-.
In conclusion, these data show that IL-10 induces c-fos expression in human B-cells by activation of tyrosine and serine/threonine kinases.
Multiple transcription factors are required for activation of human interleukin 9 gene in T cells.
The genetic elements and regulatory mechanisms responsible for human interleukin 9 -LRB- IL-9 -RRB- gene expression in a human T cell leukemia virus type I-transformed human T cell line, C5MJ2, were investigated.
We demonstrated that IL-9 gene expression is controlled, at least in part, by transcriptional activation.
Transient expression of the luciferase reporter gene linked to serially deleted sequences of the 5' - flanking region of the IL-9 gene has revealed several positive and negative regulatory elements involved in the basal and inducible expression of the IL-9 gene in C5MJ2 cells.
An AP-1 site at -146 to -140 was shown to be involved in the expression of the IL-9 gene.
A proximal region between -46 and -80 was identified as the minimum sequence for the basal and inducible expression of the IL-9 gene in C5MJ2 cells.
Within this region, an NF-kappaB site at -59 to -50 and its adjacent 20-base pair upstream sequence were demonstrated to play a critical role for the IL-9 promoter activity.
Mutations at different sites within this proximal promoter region abolished the promoter activity as well as the DNA binding.
Tissue-specific activity of the gammac chain gene promoter depends upon an Ets binding site and is regulated by GA-binding protein.
The gammac chain is a subunit of multiple cytokine receptors -LRB- interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -2, IL-4, IL-7, IL-9, and IL-15 -RRB-, the expression of which is restricted to hematopoietic lineages.
A defect in gammac leads to the X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency characterized by a block in T cell differentiation.
In order to better characterize the human gammac promoter and define the minimal tissue-specific promoter region, progressive 5' - deletion constructs of a segment extending 1053 base pairs upstream of the major transcription start site were generated and tested for promoter activity in various hematopoietic and nonhematopoietic cell types.
The -1053 / +34 construct allowed promoter activity only in cells of hematopoietic origin, and tissue specificity was conserved in all other constructs tested.
The region downstream of -90 appeared critical for basal promoter activity.
The functional Ets binding site was found to bind Ets family proteins, principally GA-binding protein and Elf-1 and could be transactivated by GABPalpha and - beta synergistically.
The role of BSAP -LRB- Pax-5 -RRB- in B-cell development.
The hierarchy of transcriptional control in B-cell development has recently been analyzed by targeted gene inactivation in the mouse.
In this manner, the paired box containing gene Pax-5, encoding the B cell specific transcription factor BSAP, has been shown to play a key role in early B lymphopoiesis.
Other experimental strategies have implicated BSAP in the control of cell proliferation, isotype switching and transcription of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene at late stages of B-cell differentiation.
Mapping of the transcriptional repression domain of the lymphoid-specific transcription factor oct-2A.
The lymphoid-specific transcription factor Oct-2a is implicated in B cell-specific transcriptional activity via the octamer motif.
Structure/function analysis of various Oct-2a effector regions in the context of the GAL4 DNA-binding domain revealed that Oct-2a contains two functionally different activation domains at the N and the C termini.
The transcriptional activity of both domains is strongly potentiated by interactions with distinct B cell-specific coactivators.
Recently, we have identified a repression domain located within the N terminus of Oct-2a -LRB- amino acids 2-99 -RRB-.
When this domain was transferred to a potent activator, transcription was strongly inhibited.
In this study we present a deletion analysis of the N-terminal region of Oct-2a to determine the minimal repression domain.
We identified a stretch of 23 amino acids, rich in serine and threonine residues, which was responsible for most of the repression activity.
We show that repression is strongly dependent on the type of enhancer present in the reporter plasmid as well as on the cell line tested.
Receptors for interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -10 and IL-6-type cytokines use similar signaling mechanisms for inducing transcription through IL-6 response elements.
The cytoplasmic domain of the receptor for interleukin 10 -LRB- IL-10R -RRB- contains two box 3 sequence motifs that have been identified in the signal-transducing receptor subunits for IL-6-type cytokines and noted to be required for activating STAT3 and inducing transcription through IL-6-responsive elements.
Both cytokines activated factors that bound to the sis-inducible element and included STAT1 and STAT3.
The cell response to IL-10 characteristically differed from that to IL-2 / IL-15, IL-4, and interferon gamma.
The signaling capabilities of the IL-10R for activating specific STAT proteins and inducing gene transcription were defined by reconstitution of receptor functions in transfected tissue culture cells.
COS-1 cells, co-expressing the human IL-10R and individual STAT proteins, confirmed a preference of the IL-10R for STAT3 and STAT1.
Unlike many hematopoietin receptors, the IL-10R did not detectably activate STAT5.
The IL-10R, together with reporter gene constructs containing different IL-6-responsive gene elements, reconstituted in hepatoma cells an induction of transcription by IL-10 that was comparable to that by IL-6.
This regulation could not be appreciably modified by enhanced expression of STAT proteins.
The similar actions of IL-10R and IL-6R on the induction of endogenous IL-6-responsive genes were demonstrated in hepatoma cells stably expressing the IL-10R.
These receptor functions required the presence of the box 3 motifs, as shown by the analysis of the mouse IL-10R constructs containing progressively truncated cytoplasmic domains.
The data demonstrate that the IL-10R, unlike other members of the interferon receptor family, is highly effective in recruiting the signaling pathways of IL-6-type cytokine receptors.
DNA triplex formation selectively inhibits granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor gene expression in human T cells.
Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB- is a hemopoietic growth factor that is expressed in activated T cells, fibroblasts, macrophages, and endothelial cells.
A 15-base oligonucleotide, GM3, was targeted to a purine-rich region in the GM-CSF proximal promoter, which overlaps the kappaB element.
Gel mobility shift assays and DNase I footprinting demonstrated that GM3 formed a sequence-specific collinear triplex with its double-stranded DNA target.
Triplex formation by GM3 blocked recombinant and nuclear NF-kappaB proteins binding to the GM-CSF element.
GM3 also caused selective inhibition of the human T-cell lymphotrophic virus-1 Tax transactivator-induced luciferase activity from a reporter construct driven by the GM-CSF promoter in Jurkat T cells.
Finally, GM3 greatly reduced the concentration of endogenous GM-CSF mRNA induced by different stimuli in Jurkat T cells but did not affect interleukin 3 mRNA levels in the same cells.
We conclude that the kappaB element in the GM-CSF promoter plays a central role in the transcriptional activation of the endogenous GM-CSF gene.
Octamer binding factors and their coactivator can activate the murine PU .1 -LRB- spi-1 -RRB- promoter.
PU .1 -LRB- spi-1 -RRB-, a member of the Ets transcription factor family, is predominantly expressed in myeloid and B cells, activates many B cell and myeloid genes, and is critical for development of both of these lineages.
Our previous studies -LRB- Chen, H.M., Ray-Gallet, D., Zhang, P., Hetherington, C.J., Gonzalez, D.A., Zhang, D.-E., Moreau-Gachelin, F., and Tenen, D.G. -LRB- 1995 -RRB- Oncogene 11, 1549-1560 -RRB- demonstrate that the PU .1 promoter directs cell type-specific reporter gene expression in myeloid cell lines, and that PU .1 activates its own promoter in an autoregulatory loop.
Here we show that the murine PU .1 promoter is also specifically and highly functional in B cell lines as well.
Oct-1 and Oct-2 can bind specifically to a site at base pair -55 in vitro, and this site is specifically protected in B cells in vivo.
We also demonstrate that two other sites contribute to promoter activity in B cells ; an Sp1 binding site adjacent to the octamer site, and the PU .1 autoregulatory site.
Finally, we show that the B cell coactivator OBF-1 / Bob1/OCA-B is only expressed in B cells and not in myeloid cells, and that OBF-1 / Bob1/OCA-B can transactivate the PU .1 promoter in HeLa and myeloid cells.
Globin gene switching.
In vivo protein-DNA interactions of the human beta-globin locus in erythroid cells expressing the fetal or the adult globin gene program.
To characterize the protein-DNA interactions important for the developmental control of the human beta-globin locus, we analyzed by in vivo dimethyl sulfate footprinting erythroid cells expressing either the fetal or the adult globin developmental program.
In contrast, in vivo footprints on GT -LRB- CACCC -RRB- motifs differed between the cells expressing the fetal or the adult globin program.
In promoter regions, the actively transcribed genes demonstrated extensive and consistent footprints over the canonical elements, such as CACCC and CCAAT motifs.
An element upstream from the human delta-globin-encoding gene specifically enhances beta-globin reporter gene expression in murine erythroleukemia cells.
We have previously shown that a DNA-binding factor specific to adult hematopoietic cells -LRB- polypryrimidine-binding factor, PYBF -RRB- binds to a pyrimidine-rich region 1 kb upstream from the human delta-globin-encoding gene -LRB- HBD -RRB-.
Here, we describe the effect of 383-bp -LRB- delta383 -RRB- and 99-bp -LRB- delta99 -RRB- sequences containing the PYBF-binding site on transcription from various globin and non-globin promoters, using a transient assay with the cat reporter gene in murine erythroleukemia -LRB- MEL -RRB- cells, a cell line with abundant PYBF activity.
A novel interferon regulatory factor family transcription factor, ICSAT/Pip/LSIRF, that negatively regulates the activity of interferon-regulated genes.
We have isolated a novel cDNA clone encoding interferon -LRB- IFN -RRB- consensus sequence-binding protein in adult T-cell leukemia cell line or activated T cells -LRB- ICSAT -RRB- ; this protein is the human homolog of the recently cloned Pip/LSIRF.
ICSAT is structurally most closely related to the previously cloned ICSBP, a member of the IFN regulatory factor -LRB- IRF -RRB- family of proteins that binds to interferon consensus sequences -LRB- ICSs -RRB- found in many promoters of the IFN-regulated genes.
Among T-cell lines investigated, ICSAT was abundantly expressed in human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 -LRB- HTLV-1 -RRB- - infected T cells.
When the HTLV-1 tax gene was expressed or phorbol myristake acetate-A23187 stimulation was used, ICSAT expression was induced in Jurkat cells which otherwise do not express ICSAT.
When the binding of ICSAT to four different ICSs was tested, the relative differences in binding affinities for those ICSs were determined.
To study the functional role of ICSAT, we performed cotransfection experiments with the human embryonal carcinoma cell line N-Tera2.
ICSAT was demonstrated to possess repressive function over the gene activation induced by IFN stimulation or by IRF-1 cotransfection.
Such repressive function is similar to that seen in IRF-2 or ICSBP.
However, we have found that ICSAT has a different repressive effect from that of IRF-2 or ICSBP in some IFN-responsive reporter constructs.
Identification of a human LIM-Hox gene, hLH-2, aberrantly expressed in chronic myelogenous leukaemia and located on 9q33-34 .1.
We describe the isolation of human LH-2, a putative transcription factor containing two cysteine-rich regions -LRB- LIM domains -RRB- and a homeobox -LRB- Hox -RRB- DNA-binding domain.
High levels of hLH-2 expression were observed in all cases of chronic myelogenous leukaemia -LRB- CML -RRB- tested, regardless of disease status.
hLH-2 was mapped to chromosome 9Q33-34 .1, in the same region as the reciprocal translocation that creates the BCR-ABL chimera of the Philadelphia chromosome -LRB- Ph' -RRB-, the hallmark of CML ; hLH-2 was retained on the derivative 9 chromosome and is therefore centromeric of c-ABL.
In addition to finding hLH-2 expression in all cases of CML, expression was observed in lymphoid malignancies and myeloid cell lines, but not in primary cases of acute myelogenous leukaemia.
BCL-6 expression during B-cell activation.
Translocations involving the BCL-6 gene are common in the diffuse large cell subtype of non-Hodgkin 's lymphoma.
Invariably, the BCL-6 coding region is intact, but its 5' untranslated region is replaced with sequences from the translocation partner.
The present study shows that BCL-6 expression is regulated in lymphocytes during mitogenic stimulation.
Resting B and T lymphocytes contain high levels of BCL-6 mRNA.
Stimulation of mouse B cells with anti-IgM or IgD antibodies, bacterial lipopolysaccharide, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate plus ionomycin, or CD40 ligand led to a five-fold to 35-fold decrease in BCL-6 mRNA levels.
Similar downregulation of BCL-6 mRNA was seen in human B cells stimulated with Staphylococcus aureus plus interleukin-2 or anti-IgM antibodies and in human T lymphocytes stimulated with phytohemagglutinin.
BCL-6 mRNA levels began to decrease 8 to 16 hours after stimulation, before cells entered S phase.
Although polyclonal activation of B cells in vitro invariably decreased BCL-6 MRNA expression, activated B cells from human germinal centers expressed BCL-6 mRNA at levels comparable to the levels in resting B cells.
Abundant expression of erythroid transcription factor P45 NF-E2 mRNA in human peripheral granurocytes.
Transcription factor NF-E2 is crucial for regulation of erythroid-specific gene expression.
p45 subunit of NF-E2 contains a basic-leucine zipper domain and dimerizes with the small Maf family protein to form functional NF-E2 complex.
While p45 expression was shown to be restricted to erythroid cells, megakaryocytes and mast cells in hematopoietic lineage, we found in this study that p45 mRNA is abundantly transcribed in the granulocyte fraction of human peripheral blood cells.
As neutrophils occupy approximately 92 % of the cells in granulocyte fraction of human peripheral blood cells.
p45 mRNA is also expressed in HL-60 promyelocytes, albeit the expression level is much lower than that of the granulocyte fraction.
HL-60 cells were found to express mafK mRNA, indicating the presence of genuine NF-E2 complex in the cells.
Although p45 mRNA is transcribed from two different promoters, aNF-E2 promoter and fNF-E2 promoter, in erythroid and megakaryocytic lineage cells, p45 mRNA is transcribed only from aNF-E2 promoter.
The expression of p45 megakaryocytic lineage cells, p45 mRNA is transcribed only from aNF-E2 promoter.
Inhibition of p105 processing by NF-kappaB proteins in transiently transfected cells.
Regulation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB involves proteasome-mediated processing of the NF-kappaB1 p105 precursor protein, which generates the p50 subunit of NF-kappaB.
In the present study, we demonstrate that signal-mediated induction of p105 processing in human T cells is associated with de novo synthesis of this precursor protein.
Interestingly, the processing rate of p105 is markedly inhibited in cells co-transfected with p50 or other NF-kappaB subunits, including RelA and c-Rel, that physically interact with p105.
We further demonstrate that p105 undergoes degradation in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated human monocytic cells.
However, the inducible degradation of p105 is not coupled with the generation of p50.
Together, these studies demonstrate that the processing and inducible degradation of p105 are differentially regulated.
A cell type-specific enhancer in the human B7 .1 gene regulated by NF-kappaB.
The costimulatory molecule B7 .1 provides a second signal critical for T cell activation.
The distribution of this integral membrane protein is restricted to certain tissues where its level of expression is modulated by multiple exogenous stimuli.
To identify the molecular basis for specificity and inducibility, the chromatin configuration of the human B7 .1 gene was examined in intact nuclei from various cell types.
The identification of a tissue-specific deoxyribonuclease I hypersensitive site approximately 3kb upstream of the transcription start site led to the characterization of a cell type-specific enhancer region.
This 183-bp region was both cell type specific and responsive to two distinct stimuli, lipopolysaccharide and dibutyryl cAMP, known to regulate B7 .1 expression.
Deletional and site-directed mutagenesis revealed the presence of multiple functionally critical cis elements within this region, one of which was a nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappaB consensus sequence.
In B7.1-positive B cells, this element bound several members of the NF-kappaB family, transcription factors already implicated in signal transduction pathways relevant to B7 .1 expression.
This is the first description, to our knowledge, of regulatory elements that control expression of a gene encoding a B7 costimulatory molecule.
Heat shock induces HIV-1 replication in chronically infected promyelocyte cell line OM10 .1.
A long period of clinical latency before development of symptoms is characteristic of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- infection.
OM10 .1, a promyelocyte cell line latently infected with HIV-1, has been developed as a model for studying the mechanism of viral latency and the activation of virus expression.
We found that this latently infected cell line with heat shock at 42 degrees C for 2 h resulted in a high level of HIV-1 production without addition of any cytokines.
The mechanism of activation was analyzed by using anti-TNF-alpha antibody and various inhibitors.
Although the TNF-alpha level in culture supernatants was below the sensitivity of an ELISA assay system, addition of anti-TNF-alpha antibody in culture medium could partially suppress the heat shock induced HIV-1 production.
Staurosporine -LRB- PKC inhibitor -RRB-, pentoxifylline -LRB- NF-kappa B inhibitor -RRB-, and Ro5-3335 -LRB- HIV-1 Tat inhibitor -RRB- also inhibited significantly the heat shock induced virus activation.
In particular, staurosporine achieved approximately 90 % inhibition of the HIV-1 antigen expression in heat shock-treated OM10 .1 at a non-toxic concentration.
Thus, the present observations will provide a further insight into the pathogenesis of HIV-1 infections.
Expression of c-fos and c-jun proteins and AP-1 binding activity during cell cycle progression of HL60 cells and phytohemagglutinin-stimulated lymphocytes.
Most studies on the expression of these proteins in relation to the cell cycle have been performed at the mRNA level, and therefore do not give direct information about the presence of the proteins during the cell cycle.
We have used Western blotting to investigate the presence of these proteins during the cell cycles of two different cellular systems : a continuously growing myeloid leukemic cell line, HL60, and normal cells stimulated into cycle, phyto - hemagglutinin -LRB- PHA -RRB- - stimulated normal human peripheral blood lymphocytes -LRB- PBL -RRB-.
The binding activity of transcription factor AP-1, which consists of dimers of Fos and Jun family proteins, was also studied using a gel shift assay.
We found nuclear p62c-fos, p39c-jun, and AP-1 binding activity throughout the cell cycle both in HL60 cells and in PHA-stimulated PBL, and we postulate that these proteins are required throughout the cell cycle and not transiently in the G0 to G1 transition as previous mRNA studies have indicated.
We demonstrated an uncoupling of AP-1 binding activity from p62c-fos, and p39c-jun AP-1 activity was expressed more strongly in the G1 - and G2/M-phase enriched samples than in the S-phase enriched samples of HL60 cells, while levels of nuclear p62c-fos and p39c-jun were constant.
Nuclei of unstimulated PBL from different donors expressed p62c-fos and p39c-jun, but AP-1 was not detected in the majority of samples.
Following PHA stimulation of PBL, the increase in AP-1 activity was delayed with respect to the augmentation of p39c-jun expression.
We also observed that cytoplasmic p62c-fos and p39c-jun were present in HL60 cells and PHA-stimulated PBL.
Involvement of intracellular Ca2 + in oxidant-induced NF-kappa B activation.
In human Jurkat T cells and its subclone Wurzburg cells oxidant challenge elevated -LSB- Ca2 + -RSB- i by mobilizing Ca2 + from intracellular stores.
In Jurkat cells this effect was rapid and transient, but in Wurzburg cells the response was slow and sustained.
H2O2-induced NF-kappaB activation in Wurzburg cells was not influenced by the presence of extracellular EGTA but was totally inhibited in cells that were loaded with esterified EGTA.
In Jurkat cells that are not sensitive to H2O2-induced NF-kappaB activation, H2O2 potentiated NF-kappaB activation in the presence of sustained high -LSB- Ca2 + -RSB- i following thapsigargin treatment.
Reversible differentiation of human monoblastic leukemia U937 cells by ML-9, an inhibitor of myosin light chain kinase.
Human monoblastic leukemia U937 cells are induced to differentiate into monocytes and macrophages by various agents.
We have shown that 1 - -LRB- 5-chloronaphthalene-1-sulfonyl -RRB- -1 H-hexahydro-1 ,4 - diazepine hydrochloride -LRB- ML-9 -RRB-, an inhibitor of myosin light chain kinase, induces differentiation of monocytoid leukemia cell lines U937 and THP-1 but not of myeloblastic leukemic ML-1 cell or erythroleukemia K562 cells.
In the present study, we further analyzed the effect of ML-9 in comparison with that of 1 alpha, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 -LRB- VD3 -RRB- a typical inducer of monocytic differentiation.
ML-9 induced nitroblue tetrazolium -LRB- NBT -RRB- - reducing activity of U937 cell more rapidly than VD3 : This differentiation marker was induced significantly after incubation with ML-9 and VD3 for 4 hours and 1 day, respectively.
ML-9 also induced alpha-naphthyl acetate esterase -LRB- ANAE -RRB- activity, another monocytic differentiation marker, more rapidly than VD3.
The growth inhibition of U937 cells by ML-9 was also reversible.
Similar effects were observed in another line of human monoblastic cells, THP-1.
ML-9 had little or no effect on the morphology of U937 cells but increased the expression of monocyte-macrophage lineage-associated surface antigen, CD14, to some extent.
Irreversible terminal differentiation induced by VD3 is associated with down regulation of the expression of c-myc and upregulation of the expression of c-fos and c-jun, but ML-9 did not affect the expression of these oncogenes appreciably.
ML-9-induced differentiation was also reversible when the cells were cultured with cultured with ML-9 plus an anti-cancer drug such as 1-beta-D-arabino-furanosylcytosine or daunomycin.
it became irreversible, however, upon simultaneous treatment with dexamethasone and transforming growth factor-beta 1 -LRB- TGF-beta 1 -RRB-, which did not induce differentiation of U937 cells but caused growth arrest of the cells in the G0/G1 phase of the cell cycle.
Interferon-gamma modulates the lipopolysaccharide-induced expression of AP-1 and NF-kappa B at the mRNA and protein level in human monocytes.
Interferon-gamma -LRB- IFN-gamma -RRB- modulates the expression of several cytokines by human monocytes at the transcriptional level.
In view of these findings, we analyzed the effects of IFN-gamma on the expression of different transcription factors in activated human monocytes.
Priming of human monocytes with IFN-gamma resulted in the down regulation of c-fos and c-jun mRNA in response to stimulation with lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- compared to the effects of LPS alone.
Not only was this effect observed at the mRNA level, but activator protein-1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB- DNA binding capacity was affected as well, A strong reduction was observed in the LPS-induced DNA-binding activity of AP-1 in the presence of IFN-gamma.
LPS-stimulated monocytes showed an increased expression of p105 mRNA, the precursor of the p50 subunit of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB-, while no effect was noticed on the expression of p65 mRNA.
In contrast, IFN-gamma priming did not affect the expression of p105 transcripts but enhanced the expression of p65 mRNA -LRB- two-fold -RRB-.
Priming with IFN-gamma followed by LPS stimulation resulted in a further increase in the expression of p65 mRNA.
This was due to an increase in the half-life of p65 mRNA -LRB- 75 vs 150 minutes -RRB-.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays -LRB- EMSAs -RRB- demonstrated that unstimulated monocytes predominantly expressed p50 NF-kappa B..
Stimulation with LPS or IFN-gamma resulted in the expression of p50 and p65 subunits, while the combination of IFN-gamma plus LPS caused a further increase in the expression of NF-kappa B..
With Western blotting, it was shown that nuclear extracts from monocytes contained p50 and p65 protein in response to LPS and IFN-gamma stimulation.
However, the combined stimulation did not result in enhanced p50 and p65 protein expression.
The effects of IFN-gamma on the transcription factors were specific, since no change was observed in the expression of NF-IL-6 or I kappa B alpha, the inhibitor of NF-kappa B..
CNI-1493 inhibits monocyte/macrophage tumor necrosis factor by suppression of translation efficiency.
Tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- mediates a wide variety of disease states including septic shock, acute and chronic inflammation, and cachexia.
Recently, a multivalent guanylhydrazone -LRB- CNI-1493 -RRB- developed as an inhibitor of macrophage activation was shown to suppress TNF production and protect against tissue inflammation and endotoxin lethality -LSB- Bianchi, M., Ulrich, P., Bloom, O., Meistrell, M., Zimmerman, G.A., Schmidtmayerova, H., Bukrinsky, M., Donnelley, T., Bucala, R., Sherry, B., Manogue, K.R., Tortolani, A.J., Cerami, A. & Tracey, K.J. -LRB- 1995 -RRB- Mol.Med .1, 254-266, and Bianchi, M., Bloom, O., Raabe, T., Cohen, P. S., Chesney, J., Sherry, B., Schmidtmayerova, H., Zhang, X., Bukrinsky, M., Ulrich, P., Cerami, A. & Tracey, J. -LRB- 1996 -RRB- J.Exp.Med., in press -RSB-.
We have now elucidated the mechanism by which CNI-1493 inhibits macrophage TNF synthesis and show here that it acts through suppression of TNF translation efficiency.
However, synthesis of the 26-kDa membrane form of TNF was effectively blocked by CNI-1493.
Further evidence for the translational suppression of TNF is given by experiments using chloram-phenicol acetyltransferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- constructs containing elements of the TNF gene that are involved in TNF translational regulation.
Both the 5' and 3' untranslated regions of the TNF gene were required to elicit maximal translational suppression by CNI-1493.
STAT-related transcription factors are constitutively activated in peripheral blood cells from acute leukemia patients.
A signal transduction pathway activated by many cytokines has recently been elaborated.
The JAK kinases and the signal transducers and activators of transcription -LRB- STAT -RRB- factors have been found to be essential components.
In this report, we describe the presence of constitutively activated STAT factors in peripheral blood cells from patients with acute leukemia.
We used oligonucleotide probes from the beta-casein and IRF-1 gene promoters and the ISRE probe to detect STAT proteins in nuclear extracts from acute leukemia cells in bandshift assays.
Specific DNA protein complex formation was observed with the probes from the beta-casein and IRF-1 gene promoters, but not with the ISRE oligonucleotide probe, when cell extracts from acute lymphoblastic leukemia -LRB- ALL -RRB- and acute myeloid leukemia -LRB- AML -RRB- were investigated.
We used nonradioactive oligonucleotides as competitors to show the specificity of the complex formation.
Specific antibodies directed against the individual STAT proteins were used in supershift experiments.
STAT5 - and STAT1-related factors were detected in ALL and STAT1 -, STAT3 -, and STAT5-related proteins were present in nuclear cell extracts from AML.
Since the cells were not treated with cytokines before the nuclear proteins were extracted, we conclude that these factors are constitutively activated in vivo.
Structural and functional characterization of the human CD36 gene promoter : identification of a proximal PEBP2/CBF site.
CD36 is a cell surface glycoprotein composed of a single polypeptide chain, which interacts with thrombospondin, collagens type I and IV, oxidized low density lipoprotein, fatty acids, anionic phospholipids, and erythrocytes parasitized with Plasmodium falciparum.
Its expression is restricted to a few cell types, including monocyte/macrophages.
In these cells, CD36 is involved in phagocytosis of apoptotic cells, and foam cell formation by uptake of oxidized low density lipoprotein.
To study the molecular mechanisms that control the transcription of the CD36 gene in monocytic cells we have isolated and analyzed the CD36 promoter.
Transient expression experiments of 5' - deletion fragments of the CD36 promoter coupled to luciferase demonstrated that as few as 158 base pairs upstream from the transcription initiation site were sufficient to direct the monocyte-specific transcription of the reporter gene.
Within the above region, the fragment spanning nucleotides -158 to -90 was required for optimal transcription in monocytic cells.
Biochemical analysis of the region -158 / -90 revealed a binding site for transcription factors of the polyomavirus enhancer-binding protein 2/core-binding factor -LRB- PEBP2/CBF -RRB- family at position -103.
Disruption of the PEBP2/CBF site markedly diminished the role of the PEBP2/CBF factors in the constitutive transcription of the CD36 gene.
The involvement of members of the PEBP2/CBF family in chromosome translocations associated with acute myeloid leukemia, and in the transcriptional regulation of the myeloid-specific genes encoding for myeloperoxidase, elastase, and the colony-stimulating factor receptor, highlights the relevance of the regulation of the CD36 gene promoter in monocytic cells by members of the PEBP2/CBF family.
Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor stimulates JAK2 signaling pathway and rapidly activates p93fes, STAT1 p91, and STAT3 p92 in polymorphonuclear leukocytes.
Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB-, supports proliferation, differentiation, and functional activation of hemopoietic cells by its interaction with a heterodimeric receptor.
Although GM-CSF receptor is devoid of tyrosine kinase enzymatic activity, GM-CSF-induced peripheral blood polymorphonuclear leukocytes -LRB- PMN -RRB- functional activation is mediated by the phosphorylation of a large number of intracellular signaling molecules.
We have previously shown that JAK2 becomes tyrosine-phosphorylated in response to GM-CSF in PMN.
In the present study we demonstrate that also the signal transducers and activators of transcription -LRB- STAT -RRB- family members STAT1 p91 and STAT3 p92 and the product of the c-fps/fes protooncogene become tyrosine-phosphorylated upon GM-CSF stimulation and physically associated with both GM-CSF receptor beta common subunit and JAK2.
Moreover GM-CSF was able to induce JAK2 and p93fes catalytic activity.
We also demonstrate that the association of the GM-CSF receptor beta common subunit with JAK2 is ligand-dependent.
Finally we demonstrate that GM-CSF induces a DNA-binding complex that contains both p91 and p92.
These results identify a new signal transduction pathway activated by GM-CSF and provide a mechanism for rapid activation of gene expression in GM-CSF-stimulated PMN.
Identification of an inducible regulator of c-myb expression during T-cell activation.
Resting T cells express very low levels of c-Myb protein.
During T-cell activation, c-myb expression is induced and much of the increase in expression occurs at the transcriptional level.
We identified a region of the c-myb 5' flanking sequence that increased c-myb expression during T-cell activation.
In vivo footprinting by ligation-mediated PCR was performed to correlate in vivo protein binding with functional activity.
A protein footprint was visible over this region of the c-myb 5' flanking sequence in activated T cells but not in unactivated T cells.
An electrophoretic mobility shift assay -LRB- EMSA -RRB- with nuclear extract from activated T cells and an oligonucleotide of this binding site demonstrated a new protein-DNA complex, referred to as CMAT for c-myb in activated T cells ; this complex was not present in unactivated T cells.
Because the binding site showed some sequence similarity with the nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB- binding site, we compared the kinetics of induction of the two binding complexes and the molecular masses of the two proteins.
Studies of the kinetics of induction showed that the NFAT EMSA binding complex appeared earlier than the CMAT complex.
The NFAT protein migrated more slowly in a sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel than the CMAT protein did.
In addition, an antibody against NFAT did not cross-react with the CMAT protein.
The appearance of the CMAT binding complex was inhibited by both cyclosporin A and rapamycin.
Role of EGR1 in regulation of stimulus-dependent CD44 transcription in B lymphocytes.
The immediate-early gene egr-1 encodes a transcription factor -LRB- EGR1 -RRB- that links B-cell antigen receptor -LRB- BCR -RRB- signals to downstream activation events through the regulation of previously unidentified target genes.
Here we identify the gene encoding the lymphocyte homing and migration protein CD44 as a target of EGR1 regulation in B cells.
BCR-induced increases in CD44 mRNA expression and transcription levels are shown to occur in EGR1-expressing but not in nonexpressing subclones of the B-cell line WEHI-231.
Kinetics of egr-1 transcription and the appearance of nuclear EGR1 protein precede CD44 induction and occur within 30 min after stimulation in the EGR1-expressing subclone.
A single EGR1 binding motif is demonstrated at bp -301 of the human CD44 promoter.
Cotransfection of a CD44 promoter-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter construct with an egr-1 expression vector resulted in a 6.5 - to 8.5-fold induction of transcriptional activity relative to an empty expression vector.
The EGR1 binding motif was shown to be necessary for stimulus-induced expression of a CD44 promoter-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter construct in nontransformed B lymphocytes and was required for transactivation by an EGR1 expression vector in a B-cell line.
These studies identify EGR1 as an intermediary linking BCR-derived signals to the induction of CD44.
The relevance of these molecular events to BCR signal transduction and antigen-stimulated B-cell-mediated immune responses is discussed.
In resting T lymphocytes, the transcription factor NF-kappaB is sequestered in the cytoplasm via interactions with members of the I kappa B family of inhibitors, including IkappaBalpha and IkappaBbeta.
During normal T-cell activation, IkappaBalpha is rapidly phosphorylated, ubiquitinated, and degraded by the 26S proteasome, thus permitting the release of functional NF-kappaB.
In contrast to its transient pattern of nuclear induction during an immune response, NF-kappaB is constitutively activated in cells expressing the Tax transforming protein of human T-cell leukemia virus type I -LRB- HTLV-1 -RRB-.
In this report, we provide evidence that in addition to acting on IkappaBalpha, Tax stimulates the turnover Of IkappaBbeta via a related targeting mechanism.
Like IkappaBalpha, Tax-mediated breakdown of IkappaBbeta in transfected T lymphocytes is blocked either by cell-permeable proteasome inhibitors or by mutation Of IkappaBbeta at two serine residues present within its N-terminal region.
Despite the dual specificity of HTLV-1 Tax for IkappaBalpha and IkappaBbeta at the protein level, Tax selectively stimulates NF-kappaB-directed transcription of the IkappaBalpha gene.
Consequently, IkappaBbeta protein expression is chronically downregulated in HTLV-1-infected T lymphocytes.
Efficient transcription and replication of simian immunodeficiency virus in the absence of NF-kappaB and Sp1 binding elements.
Ten mutants of the simian immunodeficiency virus -LRB- SIV -RRB- SIVmac239 bearing deletions -LRB- delta -RRB- or substitutions -LRB- subst -RRB- in the NF-kappaB and/or Sp1 binding elements were created, and the replicative capacities of the mutants were analyzed.
All mutants, including one extensively mutagenized strain entirely missing the NF-kappaB and four Spl binding elements, replicated with wild-type kinetics and to a wild-type level in peripheral blood mononuclear cell cultures in 50 to 100 % of the experiments.
One group of mutants replicated very similarly to SIVmac239 in kinetics and yield in CEMxl74 cells -LRB- 2xNFKappaB > or = SlVmac239 approximately deltaNFkappaB approximately deltaSpl234 approximately substNFkappaB approximately substSpl2 approximately substSp23 -RRB-, while a second group replicated with delayed or slightly delayed kinetics in CEMxl74 cells -LRB- SIVmac239 > substSp34 > deltaNFkappaBdeltaSpl234 approximately deltaNFkappaBdeltaSp1 > substSpl234 -RRB-.
Reversions or additional mutations were not detected in the U3 and R regions of proviral DNA from CEMxl74 cells infected with the SIVmac239 mutants.
Similar results were obtained when mutants of SIVmacMER -LRB- a macrophage-competent derivative of SIVmac239 -RRB- were tested in peripheral blood mononuclear cell and CEMx174 cultures.
However, the growth of most mutated viruses was suppressed in primary rhesus monkey alveolar macrophages -LRB- SIVmacMER approximately 2xNFkappaB approximately substNFkappaB > deltaNFkappaB > deltaNFkappaBdeltaSpl234 approximately deltaNFkappaBdeltaSpl > deltaSpl234 approximately substSpl2 > substSp23 approximately substSp34 approximately substSpl234 > or = SIVmac239 -RRB-.
Thus, changes in the Sp1 binding sites had the most dramatic effects on SIVmac replication in primary macrophage cultures.
Analysis of long terminal repeat-driven secreted alkaline phosphatase activity in transient assays showed that, unlike human immunodeficiency virus type 1, the SIV long terminal repeat possesses an enhancer region just upstream of the NF-kappaB element which maintains significant levels of basal transcription in the absence of NF-kappaB and Sp1 sites.
This region is responsive to transactivation by Tat.
In addition, the SIV TATA box was shown to be stronger than that of human immunodeficiency virus type 1.
Therefore, the surprisingly high replicative capacity of NF-kappaB and Sp1 binding site mutants of SIVmac is due to unique features or the enhancer/promoter region.
Permanent occupancy of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 enhancer by NF-kappa B is needed for persistent viral replication in monocytes.
This work aimed to ascertain the role of kappaB-responsive elements of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- enhancer not only in early initiation but also in long-term maintenance of proviral transcription in cells of the monocytic lineage.
For this purpose, we used three main approaches.
The first was to abruptly terminate tumor necrosis factor-induced NF-kappaB binding to the enhancer sequences in U1 monocytic cells, using a short pulse of exogenous tumor necrosis factor.
This resulted in concomitant decrease in nuclear NF-kappaB DNA-binding activity and endogenous long terminal repeat transcriptional activity.
The second was to suppress the permanent NF-kappaB translocation induced by HIV-1 replication itself in chronically infected U937 cells, using a specific proteasome inhibitor -LRB- Z-LLL-H -RRB-.
As early as 2 h after addition of the inhibitor to the culture medium, there was an inhibition of both constitutive activation of NF-kappaB and HIV-1 genome expression.
The third approach was to monitor the replication competence in U937 cells of an infectious HIV-1 provirus carrying point mutations in the kappaB-responsive elements of both long terminal repeats.
Compared with its wild-type counterpart, this mutated provirus showed a profoundly decreased, Z-LLL-H-insensitive transcriptional and replicative activity in U937 monocytes.
Thus, the ability of HIV-1 replication to activate NF-kappaB is crucial to the intense self-perpetuated viral transcription observed in cells of the monocytic lineage.
Preassociation of STAT1 with STAT2 and STAT3 in separate signalling complexes prior to cytokine stimulation.
A variety of cytokines and growth factors act through an induction of gene expression mediated by a family of latent transcription factors called STAT -LRB- signal transducers and activators of transcription -RRB- proteins.
Ligand-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the STATs promotes their homodimer and heterodimer formation and subsequent nuclear translocation.
We demonstrate here that STAT protein heterocomplexes exist prior to cytokine treatment.
Similarly, STAT1-STAT3 heterocomplexes are coimmunoadsorbed from hypotonic cytosol.
STAT1 and STAT2 or STAT1 and STAT3 translated in reticulocyte lysate spontaneously form heterocomplexes when the translation lysates are mixed at 0 degrees C..
Newly translated STAT1 binds in equilibrium fashion to STAT2 and STAT3, but we show that STAT2 and STAT3 exist in separate heterocomplexes with STAT1, consistent with a model in which STAT1 contains a common binding site for other STAT proteins.
Nuclear appearance of a factor that binds the CD28 response element within the interleukin-2 enhancer correlates with interleukin-2 production.
Activation of T lymphocytes requires the combined signaling of the T cell receptor and costimulatory molecules such as CD28.
The ability of T cells to produce interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- is a critical control point in T lymphocyte activation.
The IL-2 enhancer contains a functional motif named CD28 response element -LRB- CD28RE -RRB- that serves a role as a target for mitogenic T cell activation signals.
The CD28RE sequence reveals similarity to the consensus kappaB binding motif.
Here we demonstrate that CD28RE binds an inducible protein with a molecular mass of approximately 35 kDa called nuclear factor of mitogenic-activated T cells -LRB- NF-MATp35 -RRB- that is clearly different from the known NF - kappaB/Rel family members.
Induction of NF-MATp35 was shown to depend on de novo protein synthesis and was restricted to T cells that received a mitogenic combination of T cell stimuli, not necessarily including CD28 signaling.
Nonmitogenic T cell stimulation did not result in appearance of NF-MATp35.
Similar to its effect on IL-2 production, cyclosporin A inhibited the induction of NF-MATp35.
Taken together, these data demonstrate that the nuclear appearance of NF-MATp35 shows excellent correlation with IL-2 production, which is a unique characteristic among nuclear factors implicated in the control of IL-2 gene expression.
Human T lymphotropic virus-I infection of human T lymphocytes induces expression of the beta-galactoside-binding lectin, galectin-3.
Animal lectins play important roles in a variety of biological processes via their recognition of glycoconjugates.
Galectin-3 is a beta-galactoside-binding lectin previously designated as epsilon BP -LRB- IgE-binding protein -RRB-, CBP35, Mac-2, L-29, and L-34, and its expression has been associated with various physiological and pathological processes, including cell growth, tumor transformation, and metastasis.
Galectin-3 is widely distributed in various tissues and cell types and is expressed in many leukocytes, with the notable exception of B and T lymphocytes.
We now report that galectin-3 is abundantly expressed in a number of human T lymphotropic virus -LRB- HTLV -RRB- - I-infected human T cell lines, including F6T, HUT 102, K3T, MT-2, and SLB-I, but is not expressed in non-HTLV-I-infected T cell lines such as Jurkat, CEM, and MOLT-4.
In addition, the galectin-3 level was markedly increased in human thymocytes after infection with HTLV-I as compared with uninfected thymocytes.
In co-transfection experiments, the galectin-3 promoter was significantly up-regulated by expression vectors encoding the 40-kd Tax protein, a potent transactivator in HTLV-I.
Transfection of human promonocytic U-937 cells with an HTLV-I Tax expression vector induced galectin-3 expression in this cell line.
Functionally, galectin-3 was shown to activate interleukin-2 production in Jurkat T cells.
Rel-deficient T cells exhibit defects in production of interleukin 3 and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor.
The c-rel protooncogene encodes a subunit of the NF-kappa B-like family of transcription factors.
Mice lacking Rel are defective in mitogenic activation of B and T lymphocytes and display impaired humoral immunity.
In an attempt to identify changes in gene expression that accompany the T-cell stimulation defects associated with the loss of Rel, we have examined the expression of cell surface activation markers and cytokine production in mitogen-stimulated Rel - / - T cells.
The expression of cell surface markers including the interleukin 2 receptor alpha -LRB- IL-2R alpha -RRB- chain -LRB- CD25 -RRB-, CD69 and L-selectin -LRB- CD62 -RRB- is normal in mitogen-activated Rel - / - T cells, but cytokine production is impaired.
In Rel - / - splenic T cell cultures stimulated with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and ionomycin, the levels of IL-3, IL-5, granulocyte - macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB-, tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB-, and gamma interferon -LRB- IFN-gamma -RRB- were only 2 - to 3-fold lower compared with normal T cells.
In contrast, anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 stimulated Rel - / - T cells, which fail to proliferate, make little or no detectable cytokines.
Exogenous IL-2, which restitutes the proliferative response of the anti-CD3 - and anti-CD28-treated Rel - / - T cells, restores production of IL-5, TNF-alpha, and IFN-gamma, but not IL-3 and GM-CSF expression to approximately normal levels.
In contrast to mitogen-activated Rel - / - T cells, lipopolysaccharide-stimulated Rel - / - macrophages produce higher than normal levels of GM-CSF.
These findings establish that Rel can function as an activator or repressor of gene expression and is required by T lymphocytes for production of IL-3 and GM-CSF.
The role of p16 in the E2F-dependent thymidine kinase regulation.
Phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma protein by cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6 prevents its interaction with the transcription factor E2F, which subsequently promotes the expression of S phase regulated genes, such as thymidine kinase.
We investigated the regulation of thymidine kinase in phytohemagglutinin-stimulated normal human lymphocytes and in the p16-negative human acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell lines, MOLT-4 and CEM.
Compared to normal lymphocytes, MOLT-4 and CEM cells exhibited an altered cell cycle regulation of thymidine kinase, a much higher intracellular activity of this enzyme, and higher thymidine kinase mRNA expression.
Transient expression of p16 in normal human lymphocytes caused arrest in G1, but was without effect on the cell growth of MOLT-4 and CEM cells, although all of them express functional retinoblastoma protein.
Nevertheless, in the two leukemia cell lines transient overexpression of p16 reestablished the normal regulation of thymidine kinase, paralleled by an increase of the underphosphorylated form of retinoblastoma protein and decrease of free E2F bound to its motif in the thymidine kinase promoter.
We demonstrate that loss of p16 causes upregulation of this DNA precursor pathway enzyme via activation of E2F by a mechanism involving retinoblastoma protein.
Inhibitory effect of E3330, a novel quinone derivative able to suppress tumor necrosis factor-alpha generation, on activation of nuclear factor-kappa B..
-LRB- 2E -RRB- -3 - -LSB- 5 - -LRB- 2,3-Dimethoxy-6-methyl-1 ,4 - benzoquinoyl -RRB- -RSB- -2 - nonyl-2 - propenoic acid -LRB- E3330 -RRB-, is a novel agent with hepatoprotective activity.
We report the effect of E3330 on transcriptional activation of tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- - alpha gene and on nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappa B activation.
Nuclear run-on experiments showed that E3330 decreases transcriptional activation of TNF-alpha gene induced by lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- stimulation in human peripheral monocytes.
To investigate the inhibitory mechanisms, we constructed a secreted-type placental alkaline phosphatase -LRB- PLAP -RRB- reporter gene whose transcription is controlled by a 1.4-kb human TNF-alpha promoter.
A stable transformant of the PLAP reporter gene derived from human monocytic cell line showed very little activity on the promoter before stimulation, whereas LPS stimulation led to a dramatic increase in PLAP activity.
E3330 inhibited this induced promoter activity in a dose-dependent manner.
There are four putative NF-kappa B binding sites -LRB- kappa B-1, kappa B-2, kappa B-3, kappa B-4 -RRB- in human TNF-alpha promoter.
By using mutated promoter-PLAP plasmids, we established that these NF-kappa B sites were necessary for induction of TNF-alpha transcription on stimulation with LPS.
Monocytic cell type-specific transcriptional induction of collagenase.
Interstitial collagenase -LRB- MMP-1 -RRB-, a metalloproteinase produced by resident and inflammatory cells during connective tissue turnover, cleaves type I collagen fibrils.
This catalytic event is rate limiting in remodeling of tissues rich in fibrillar collagen such as the skin and lungs.
The regulation of collagenase expression is cell-type specific ; bacterial LPS and zymosan, a yeast cell wall derivative, are potent inducers of collagenase expression in macrophages, but do not alter fibroblast collagenase expression.
Since promoter elements controlling collagenase transcription in monocytic cells have not been previously defined, we sought to delineate responsive cis-acting elements of the collagenase promoter in transiently transfected human -LRB- U937 -RRB- and murine -LRB- J774 -RRB- monocytic cell lines.
Deletion constructs containing as little as 72 bp of 5' - flanking sequence of the collagenase promoter were sufficient for LPS - or zymosan-mediated transcriptional induction, whereas phorbol inducibility exhibited an absolute requirement for upstream elements including the polyoma enhancer A-binding protein-3 site -LRB- -83 to -91 -RRB- and TTCA sequence -LRB- -102 to -105 -RRB- in both monocytic cells and fibroblasts.
Mutagenesis of the activator protein-1 -LSB- AP-1 -RSB- site at -72 abolished basal promoter activity and LPS/zymosan inducibility, while mutagenesis of an NF-kappaB-like site at -20 to -10 had no effect.
Nuclear extracts from LPS - and zymosan-treated cells showed strong AP-1 activity by gel-shift analysis, and supershift analysis showed the AP-1 complexes contained specific members of both the jun and fos gene families.
Furthermore, as compared to regulation by phorbol ester, collagenase induction in monocytic cells by cell wall derivatives of bacteria or yeast is largely independent of upstream promoter sequences.
Interactions of a transcriptional activator in the env gene of the mouse mammary tumor virus with activation-dependent, T cell-specific transacting factors.
The mouse mammary tumor virus env gene contains a transcriptional activator -LRB- META -RRB- that can control transcription of the adjacent long terminal repeat region.
Transcriptional control by META parallels that of several lymphokine genes, being specific to T cells, dependent on their activation, and inhibited by the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporine -LRB- CsA -RRB-.
Nuclear factors from unstimulated, but not from activated cells, bound a site, META -LRB- D - -RRB-, adjacent to META -LRB- D + -RRB-.
META -LRB- D + -RRB- directed transcription of a linked luciferase gene, and gel shift analysis revealed binding of inducible, CsA-sensitive T cell factors, in parallel with transfection results.
Authentic NFAT and NF-kappaB targets did not compete for the META -LRB- D + -RRB- binding factor -LRB- s -RRB-.
The SV40 core sequence competed for META -LRB- D + -RRB- binding factors, but META -LRB- D + -RRB- failed to compete for the complexes obtained with the SV40 probe.
A hydrophobic domain of Ca2 + - modulating cyclophilin ligand modulates calcium influx signaling in T lymphocytes.
Ca2 + - modulating cyclophilin ligand -LRB- CAML -RRB- was originally described as a cyclophilin B-binding protein whose overexpression in T cells causes a rise in intracellular calcium, thus activating transcription factors responsible for the early immune response.
These findings define a novel protein motif that functions in intracellular calcium signaling.
Transcriptional regulation of the interleukin-2 gene in normal human peripheral blood T cells.
Convergence of costimulatory signals and differences from transformed T cells.
To study transcriptional regulation in normal human T cells, we have optimized conditions for transient transfection.
Interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- promoter-reporter gene behavior closely parallels the endogenous gene in response to T cell receptor and costimulatory signals.
As assessed with mutagenized promoters, the most important IL-2 cis-regulatory elements in normal T cells are the proximal AP-1 site and the NF - kappaB site.
Both primary activation, with phytohemagglutinin or antibodies to CD3, and costimulation, provided by pairs of CD2 antibodies or B7-positive -LRB- B cells -RRB- or B7-negative -LRB- endothelial -RRB- accessory cells, are mediated through the same cis-elements.
Interestingly, the nuclear factor of activated T cell sites are much less important in normal T cells than in Jurkat T cells.
We conclude that IL-2 transcriptional regulation differs in tumor cell lines compared with normal T cells and that different costimulatory signals converge on the same cis-elements in the IL-2 promoter.
Modulation of endogenous IL-1 beta and IL-1 receptor antagonist results in opposing effects on HIV expression in chronically infected monocytic cells.
A proportion of HIV-infected individuals experience episodes of localized or systemic bacterial infections caused by Gram-negative bacteria.
Many of the clinical side effects of these infections are associated with the production of proinflammatory cytokines, which are induced primarily by LPS, a constituent of the bacterial cell wall of Gram-negative bacteria.
The present study examines the mechanisms involved in LPS-mediated induction of HIV expression in U1 cells, a promonocytic cell line chronically infected with HIV.
Stimulation of U1 cells by LPS alone induced minimal levels of HIV expression, which was significantly enhanced by granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB-.
Costimulation of U1 cells with LPS plus GM-CSF resulted in the accumulation of steady-state levels of HIV RNA ; however, only a weak induction of HIV long terminal repeat-driven transcription, which was not associated with the activation of the cellular transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa B, was noted.
Costimulation of cells with LPS plus GM-CSF induced the production of proinflammatory cytokines, IL-8, IL-1 beta and IL-6, but not TNF-alpha.
In this regard, anti-inflammatory cytokines inhibited LPS plus GM-CSF-stimulated HIV expression, and this effect closely correlated with inhibition of IL-1 beta release and, in particular, with up-regulation of endogenous IL-1ra production.
An enhancer-blocking element between alpha and delta gene segments within the human T cell receptor alpha/delta locus.
T cell receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- alpha and delta gene segments are organized within a single genetic locus but are differentially regulated during T cell development.
An enhancer-blocking element -LRB- BEAD-1, for blocking element alpha/delta 1 -RRB- was localized to a 2.0-kb region 3' of TCR delta gene segments and 5' of TCR alpha joining gene segments within this locus.
BEAD-1 blocked the ability of the TCR delta enhancer -LRB- Edelta -RRB- to activate a promoter when located between the two in a chromatin-integrated construct.
Quantification of vitamin D receptor mRNA by competitive polymerase chain reaction in PBMC : lack of correspondence with common allelic variants.
It has been recently claimed that polymorphism for the vitamin D receptor -LRB- VDR -RRB- influences several aspects of calcium and bone metabolism.
To evaluate the physiologic plausibility of these claims, we compared the abundance of the VDR mRNA in peripheral blood mononuclear cells -LRB- PBMCs -RRB- between different VDR genotypes using a quantitative reverse transcribed polymerase chain reaction-based method.
The method is based on the coamplification of VDR cDNA and an internal standard consisting of known concentrations of a human VDR CDNA mutated at a BglII restriction site ; the interassay coefficient of variation is 11 %.
The concentration of the VDR mRNA was 10 -LRB- -8 -RRB- to 10 -LRB- -7 -RRB- g/g of total RNA in cell-sorted monocytes and in in vitro activated lymphocytes, but only 10 -LRB- -12 -RRB- g/g of total mRNA in resting lymphocytes, establishing that the VDR mRNA determined by our method in PBMCs is due to constitutive expression in monocytes.
Following an initial genotype screening of 85 normal volunteers by polymerase chain reaction or restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis, 14 individuals with the Bb genotype, 12 with the bb genotype, and 12 with the BB genotype were selected.
The concentration of the VDR mRNA, corrected for the number of monocytes, was similar among the three genotype groups, as were the other variables examined : serum calcitriol, serum osteocalcin, and vertebral and hip bone density.
We conclude that VDR polymorphism does not affect the abundance of the VDR mRNA.
Regulation of CD95 -LRB- Fas -RRB- ligand expression by TCR-mediated signaling events.
Stimulation of mature peripheral T cells by TCR engagement results in activation of signals that drive induction of cytokine gene expression and clonal expansion.
However, under some conditions, engagement of the TCR leads instead to apoptosis.
Recent studies demonstrate that TCR-stimulated apoptosis requires expression of CD95 ligand on activated T cells followed by an interaction between CD95 ligand and the CD95 receptor also expressed on this population.
The experiments reported in this study were designed to address the signaling events triggered by TCR engagement that are important for regulating CD95 ligand gene expression.
To approach this, we generated a luciferase reporter construct containing elements of the CD95 ligand promoter.
Using a previously described mutant of the Jurkat T cell line, we show that proximal signaling events dependent on the presence of the CD45 tyrosine phosphatase are required for TCR-stimulated CD95 ligand expression.
Transient transfection studies demonstrate further that TCR-stimulated activation of the Ras signaling pathway is required for optimal activation of CD95 ligand.
Next, in an effort to determine critical transcription factors that regulate CD95 ligand expression, we demonstrate a cyclosporin A-sensitive nuclear factor-AT response element in the promoter region of this gene that is critical for optimal CD95 ligand reporter activity in stimulated T cells.
Together, these studies begin a dissection of the biochemical events that lead to expression of CD95 ligand, a required step for TCR-induced apoptosis.
CD40 is a functional activation antigen and B7-independent T cell costimulatory molecule on normal human lung fibroblasts.
CD40 is an important signaling and activation Ag found on certain bone marrow-derived cells.
Recently, CD40 also has been shown to be expressed by mesenchymal cells, including human fibroblasts.
Little is known about the role of CD40 in fibroblasts.
Communication between resident tissue fibroblasts and T cells is necessary for normal wound healing, and can be pathologic, resulting in tissue fibrosis.
Signaling through CD40 with soluble CD40 ligand stimulated fibroblast activation, as evidenced by mobilization of nuclear factor-kappaB and by induction of the proinflammatory and chemoattractant cytokines IL-6 and IL-8.
IFN-gamma-primed lung fibroblasts costimulate T lymphocyte proliferation utilizing CD40, but not the well-studied costimulatory molecules B7-1 and B7-2.
Triggering of HLA-DR antigens differentially modulates tumor necrosis factor alpha release by B cells at distinct stage of maturation.
Triggering of HLA class II antigens by the anti-HLA-DR monoclonal antibody -LRB- mAb -RRB- L243 significantly -LRB- P < 0.05 -RRB- and differentially enhanced the release of tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- by the non-Hodgkin 's lymphoma cells Ri-I, Ci-I, and Sc-I, which are at a distinct stage of B-cell differentiation, and by the more mature Burkitt lymphoma cell Raji ; in contrast, it did not induce TNF-alpha release by the pre-B leukemia cells Nalm-6 and BV173.
TNF-alpha release peaked at 24 h and decreased thereafter, and it was dose dependent and preceded by an increase of TNF-alpha mRNA detectable after 3 h of stimulation with mAb L243.
Secreted TNF-alpha mediated the enhancement of nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- and activator protein-1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB- binding activity ; in fact, the triggering of HLA-DR antigens in the presence of antihuman TNF-alpha-neutralizing antibodies did not upregulate NF-kappa B and AP-1.
In contrast, released TNF-alpha was not responsible for the homotypic aggregation of Ri-I, Ci-I, Sc-I, and Raji cells induced by mAb L243, and it did not affect the proliferation of B cells investigated.
Cytomegalovirus immediate early genes upregulate interleukin-6 gene expression.
BACKGROUND : The immediate early genes -LRB- IE -RRB- of human cytomegalovirus -LRB- CMV -RRB- can be expressed in monocytic cells and are known to regulate viral and cellular genes.
Interleukin-6 -LRB- IL-6 -RRB- plays a central role in numerous inflammatory and immune processes.
Interleukin-6 levels are increased in lung transplant patients clinically diagnosed with CMV pneumonitis.
The regulation of IL-6 is dependent on various stimuli that include lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-, viruses, and other cytokines.
These studies examined the ability of CMV IE gene products to modulate IL-6 production.
METHODS : THP-1 cells, a monocytic cell line, were transfected with the CMV IE genes.
Interleukin-6 protein and IL-6 mRNA were measured in control and CMV immediate early transfected cells.
Cotransfection of CMV IE genes and IL-6 chloramphenicol acetyl transferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- or IL-6 luciferase constructs were used to study IL-6 promoter activity.
RESULTS : Interleukin-6 protein and mRNA production were significantly increased in cells transfected with the CMV IE genes and stimulated with LPS compared to LPS-stimulated control cells.
Cytomegalovirus IE gene products significantly enhanced LPS stimulation of IL-6 promoter activity in both IL-6 CAT and IL-6 luciferase assays.
A deletion construct that contains a NF-kappa B site but is missing the multiple response region demonstrated a continued increase in IL-6 luciferase activity in LPS-stimulated CMV transfected cells.
CONCLUSION : Cytomegalovirus immediate early gene products significantly enhanced expression of IL-6 in LPS-stimulated cells.
The increase in IL-6 luciferase activity occurs in the absence of the multiple response region, the area of the IL-6 promoter responsive to IL-1, TNF alpha, cyclic amp, and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate.
Cellular redox status influences both cytotoxic and NF-kappa B activation in natural killer cells.
The role of cellular redox status in both cytotoxic activity and NF-kappa B activation in natural killer -LRB- NK -RRB- cells was investigated.
Pretreatment of NK cells with the antioxidant pyrrolidine dithiocarbarmate -LRB- PDTC -RRB- leads to the inhibition of NF-kappa B activation but the AP-1 binding to DNA was superinduced.
The inhibition of NF-kappa B by PDTC paralleled with an inhibition of spontaneous cytotoxicity mediated by NK cells.
Moreover, the inhibitors of serine proteases, N-alpha-tosyl-L-lysine chloromethyl ketone and N-alpha-tosyl-L-phenylalanine chloromethyl ketone, also blocked the cytolytic activity of NK cells against the sensitive target K562.
In contrast, NK activity was not affected by pretreatment of the effector cells with the proteasome inhibitor N-acetyl-leu-leu-norleucinal which selectively inhibits NF-kappa B activation.
Homodimerization of the human interleukin 4 receptor alpha chain induces Cepsilon germline transcripts in B cells in the absence of the interleukin 2 receptor gamma chain.
The cytokines interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -4 and IL-13 play a critical role in inducing Cepsilon germline transcripts and IgE isotype switching in human B cells.
The IL-4 receptor -LRB- IL-4R -RRB- in B cells is composed of two chains, the IL-4-binding IL-4Ralpha chain, which is shared with the IL-13R, and the IL-2Rgamma -LRB- gammac -RRB- chain, which is shared with IL-7R, IL-9R, and IL-15R.
IL-4 induces Cepsilon germline transcripts and IgE isotype switching in B cells from patients with gammac chain deficiency.
We show that ligand-induced homodimerization of chimeric surface receptors consisting of the extracellular and transmembrane domains of the erythropoietin receptor and of the intracellular domain of IL-4Ralpha induces Janus kinase 1 -LRB- Jak1 -RRB- activation, STAT6 activation, and Cepsilon germline transcripts in human B cell line BJAB.
Disruption of the Jak1-binding proline-rich Box1 region of IL-4Ralpha abolished signaling by this chimeric receptor.
Furthermore, B cells transfected with a chimeric CD8alpha/IL -4 Ralpha receptor, which is expressed on the cell surface as a homodimer, constitutively expressed Cepsilon germline transcripts.
Activation of the NF-kappaB pathway by inflammatory stimuli in human neutrophils.
Activated neutrophils have the ability to upregulate the expression of many genes, in particular those encoding cytokines and chemokines, and to subsequently release the corresponding proteins.
Although little is known to date concerning the regulation of gene transcription in neutrophils, it is noteworthy that many of these genes depend on the activation of transcription factors, such as NF-kappaB, for inducible expression.
We now report that dimers consisting of p50 NFkappaB1, p65 RelA, and/or c-Rel are present in neutrophils and that the greater part of these protein complexes is physically associated with cytoplasmic IkappaB-alpha in resting cells.
Following neutrophil stimulation with proinflammatory agonists -LRB- such as lipopolysaccharide -LSB- LPS -RSB-, tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LSB- TNF-alpha -RSB-, and fMet-Leu-Phe -RRB- that induce the production of cytokines and chemokines in these cells, NF-kappaB/Rel proteins translocated to nuclear fractions, resulting in a transient induction of NF-kappaB DNA binding activity, as determined in gel mobility shift assays.
The onset of both processes was found to be closely paralleled by, and dependent on, IkappaB-alpha degradation.
Proinflammatory neutrophil stimuli also promoted the accumulation of IkappaB-alpha mRNA transcripts, resulting in the reexpression of the IkappaB-alpha protein.
Regulation of human epsilon germline transcription : role of B-cell-specific activator protein.
Germline transcripts initiate from promoters upstream of the immunoglobulin switch region, and are necessary to target the appropriate switch region for recombination and switching.
Different cytokines activate transcription at the appropriate germline promoter.
Our results showed that BSAP plays a role in both IL-4-dependent induction and CD40-mediated upregulation of human epsilon germline transcription.
BSAP is unique among the transcription factors that regulate epsilon germline expression, because it is B cell specific, and is at the merging point of two signalling pathways that are critical for IgE switching.
Retinoic acid-induced modulation of IL-2 mRNA production and IL-2 receptor expression on T cells.
BACKGROUND : Retinoic acid -LRB- RA -RRB- has important immune-modulating effects on both T and B cell function.
Our laboratory has shown that RA can enhance in vitro polyclonal B cell immunoglobulin -LRB- Ig -RRB- response.
Investigating cytokines known to affect B cell differentiation, we have recently shown that IL-6 production is augmented by RA.
In the present study we have examined the immune modulating effects of RA on IL-2 mRNA, another important cytokine for B cell immunoglobulin production, the expression of IL-2 receptors on T cells, and the RA nuclear receptors.
METHODS : Purified T cells were obtained from adenoidal tissues, and incubated with RA -LRB- 10 -LRB- -7 -RRB- M -RRB- or DMSO solvent/media control for 0, 6-8, and 24 h..
Total mRNA was extracted from T cells, and using RT-PCR, changes in the production of IL-2 and RA receptors -LRB- RAR -RRB- - alpha, beta, gamma mRNA were determined.
The effects of RA on IL-2-alpha receptor expression was determined by flow cytometry on T cells.
Itk, a T cell-specific tyrosine kinase, is required for CD2-mediated interleukin-2 promoter activation in the human T cell line Jurkat.
We investigated the functional role of Itk, a member of the cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase Tec family, in T cell activation.
Stimulation of either CD2 or T cell receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- / CD3 on Tcells by monoclonal antibody-mediated cross-linking induced tyrosine phosphorylation of Itk, which was maximal as early as 1 min after stimulation.
The tyrosine kinase activity in the anti-Itk immunoprecipitate was significantly activated upon these stimulations.
Interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- promoter activity stimulated by cross-linking of CD2, TCR/CD3, and CD28 with antibodies was significantly reduced by transient expression of an Itk mutant lacking the kinase activity.
The reduction paralleled a decrease in tyrosine phosphorylation of endogenous wild-type Itk.
Stimulation of CD2 or TCR/CD3 induced activation of the nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB-, the binding site of which is included in the IL-2 gene promoter.
The activation of NFAT was also impaired by expression of the Itk mutant.
Jak3 is associated with CD40 and is critical for CD40 induction of gene expression in B cells.
CD40 is a receptor that is critical for the survival, growth, differentiation, and isotype switching of B lymphocytes.
Although CD40 lacks intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity, its ligation induces protein tyrosine phosphorylation, which is necessary for several CD40-mediated events.
We show that engagement of CD40 induces tyrosine phosphorylation and activation of Jak3 as well as of STAT3.
Jak3 is constitutively associated with CD40, and this interaction requires a proline-rich sequence in the membrane-proximal region of CD40.
Deletion of this sequence abolishes the capacity of CD40 to induce expression of CD23, ICAM-1, and lymphotoxin-alpha genes in B cells.
The tumour associated cell surface antigen A6H is costimulatory for human CD4 + but not CD8 + T cells.
The A6H monoclonal antibody -LRB- mAb -RRB- recognizes a 120,000-140 ,000 MW antigen that is expressed at similar densities on 85-90 % of human CD4 + and CD8 + T cells and on renal cell carcinomas.
The binding of the A6H mAb induced a costimulatory signal in anti-CD3 activated T cells.
In the present report, we show that A6H costimulated cell proliferation and cytokine production in purified CD4 + T cells.
Unexpectedly, the CD8 + T-cell subpopulation failed to respond.
CD4 + T cells costimulated with the A6H mAb upregulated CD80, CD86, CD71, interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- R alpha, IL-2R beta and IL-2R gamma, while no corresponding up-regulation of these cell surface molecules was seen in CD8 + T cells.
In order to investigate the nature of the A6H mAb costimulus at the transcriptional level we have examined induction of the transcription factors OCT-1, AP-1 and NF-kappa B which are known to be transcriptional regulators of several cytokine and cytokine receptor genes, including the IL-2 and IL-2R genes.
Co-ligation of the A6H antigen and the CD3 complex induced expression of the transcription factor AP-1 in CD4 + T cells, whereas no increase in NF-kappa B and octamer-binding -LRB- Oct -RRB- proteins was seen compared to T cells stimulated with anti-CD3 alone.
Furthermore, no induction of AP-1 was seen in A6H costimulated CD8 + T cells.
Structure and function analysis of the human myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen promoter : evidence for the role of Sp1 and not of c-Myb or PU .1 in myelomonocytic lineage-specific expression.
The human myeloid nuclear differentiation antigen -LRB- MNDA -RRB- is expressed specifically in maturing cells of the myelomonocytic lineage and in monocytes and granulocytes.
Epitope enhancement was used to confirm the strict lineage - and stage-specific expression of MNDA in bone marrow as well as in other paraffin-embedded fixed tissues.
A 1-kb region of the gene that includes 5' flanking sequence was reported earlier to contain functional promoter activity and was specifically demethylated in expressing cells in contrast to null cells.
Further analysis has revealed that this 1-kb fragment promotes higher reporter gene activity in MNDA-expressing cells than non-expressing cells, indicating cell-specific differences in transactivation.
This sequence contains consensus elements consistent with myeloid-specific gene expression, including a PU .1 consensus site near the major transcription start site and a cluster of c-Myb sites located several hundred bases upstream of this region.
However, analysis of deletion mutants localized nearly all of the promoter activity to a short region -LRB- -73 to -16 -RRB- that did not include the cluster of c-Myb sites.
A 4-bp mutation of the core Sp1 consensus element -LRB- GC box -RRB- -LRB- -20 -RRB- reduced overall promoter activity of the 1-kb fragment.
Mutation of the PU .1 site did not significantly affect promoter activity.
Only a small region -LRB- -35 to +22 -RRB- including the Sp1 element and transcription start site, but not the PU .1 site was footprinted.
The 4-bp mutation of the core Sp1 consensus element abolished footprinting at the site and an antibody super-shift reaction showed that Sp1 is one of the factors binding the consensus site.
The Sp1 site also co-localizes with a DNase I hypersensitive site.
Inhibitor -LRB- IK -RRB- of IFN-gamma induced HLA class II antigens expression also inhibits HLA class II constitutive expression in the human Raji B cell line.
The expression of major histocompatibility complex -LRB- MHC -RRB- class II antigens is constitutive in professional antigen presenting cells -LRB- APCs -RRB- but can also be induced by interferon-gamma -LRB- IFN-gamma -RRB- on the majority of the non professional APCs -LRB- e.g. fibroblasts -RRB-.
We have recently characterised a new factor called IK which is an efficient inhibitor of IFN-gamma induction of MHC class II antigens expression.
Here, we demonstrate a novel role for IK in MHC class II expression since over-expression of this protein by stable transfection into human B cells led to a total disappearance of constitutive MHC class II mRNA expression.
The class II transactivator -LRB- CIITA -RRB- is necessary for both constitutive and IFN-gamma induced MHC class II expressions.
Examination of CIITA mRNA in IK stably transfected clones revealed a marked reduction of CIITA mRNA transcription.
Taken together these results demonstrate that the IK protein plays a key role in the constitutive expression of MHC class II antigens and that inhibition induced by IK is upstream of CIITA in this regulatory pathway.
NF-kappa B-independent suppression of HIV expression by ascorbic acid.
Ascorbic acid -LRB- ascorbate or vitamin C -RRB- has been shown to suppress the induction of HIV in latently infected T lymphocytic cells following stimulation with a tumor promoter -LRB- PMA -RRB- and inflammatory cytokine -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB-.
Pretreatment of ACH-2 T cells by NAC followed by stimulation with PMA, TNF-alpha, or hydrogen peroxide -LRB- H2O2 -RRB- resulted in strong suppression of NF-kappa B activation.
In contrast, neither ascorbate nor AZT affected NF-kappa B activity under all three induction conditions in the ACH-2 cell line.
Ascorbate and AZT also had no effect on NF-kappa B activation following TNF-alpha - or PMA-induced stimulation of U1 promonocytic cells.
A negative role for phosphoinositide 3-kinase in T-cell antigen receptor function.
BACKGROUND : A delicate balance between positive and negative regulatory mechanisms during T-cell activation determines the specificity and magnitude of an immune response.
Phosphoinositide 3-kinase -LRB- PI 3-kinase -RRB- is activated by a diverse set of receptors that determine T-cell function, including the T-cell antigen receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB-, the costimulatory receptor CD28, and negative regulators of T-cell activation such as CTLA-4.
PI 3-kinase is also regulated by the haematopoietic cytokines that determine T-cell differentiation and lymphocyte proliferation.
PI 3-kinase can thus dynamically influence the outcome of the immune reactions at various stages.
In this study, we investigated the importance of PI 3-kinase in TCR-directed T-cell activation using activated or inhibitory versions of PI 3-kinase.
RESULTS : Certain aspects of TCR responses such as the induction of transcriptional activity of AP1 and serum response factor were not affected by expression of the mutant forms of PI 3-kinase.
We found, however, that PI 3-kinase profoundly influenced the transactivation capacity of ` nuclear factor of activated T cells' -LRB- NF-AT -RRB- elicited by the TCR : expression of an activated form of PI 3-kinase inhibited TCR-mediated NF-AT responses, whereas expression of a dominant negative mutant of PI 3-kinase potently enhanced TCR-controlled NF-AT induction.
CONCLUSIONS : Our results establish that PI 3-kinase can both positively and negatively regulate T-cell function, and uncover a previously unrecognized function for PI 3-kinase in T cells as a selective negative regulator of TCR-signalling events and therefore as a determinant of T-cell homeostasis.
Cell-to-cell contact activates the long terminal repeat of human immunodeficiency virus 1 through its kappaB motif.
Cell-to-cell contact between peripheral blood lymphocytes and transfected human colonic carcinoma cell line HT29 activates transcription of the long terminal repeats -LRB- LTR -RRB- of human immunodeficiency virus.
HIV-1 LTR transcription is controlled by a complex array of virus-encoded and cellular proteins.
Using various constructs expressing a lacZ reporter gene under the control of the intact or three deleted forms of HIV-1 LTR, we obtained evidence that the kappaB regulatory elements located in the U3 region are involved in cell-to-cell activation of HIV-1 LTR.
Cell-to-cell contact activates in vitro binding of the nuclear factor kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- p50/p65 heterodimer to an HIV-1 kappaB oligonucleotide.
Cell-to-cell contact activation of NF-kappaB was only partially inhibited by 100 microM pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate and was not correlated with a significant decrease of cellular inhibitor kappaB alpha.
NF-kappaB nuclear activation was not detectable before 1 h after cell contact and was dependent on protein synthesis.
Lineage - and stage-specific expression of runt box polypeptides in primitive and definitive hematopoiesis.
Translocations involving the human CBFA2 locus have been associated with leukemia.
This gene, originally named AML1, is a human homologue of the Drosophila gene runt that controls early events in fly embryogenesis.
To clarify the role of mammalian runt products in normal and leukemic hematopoiesis, we have studied their pattern of expression in mouse hematopoietic tissues in the adult and during ontogeny using an anti-runt box antiserum.
In the adult bone marrow, we found expression of runt polypeptides in differentiating myeloid cells and in B lymphocytes.
Within the erythroid lineage, runt expression is biphasic, clearly present in the erythroblasts of early blood islands and of the fetal liver, but absent in the adult.
Biochemical analysis by Western blotting of fetal and adult hematopoietic populations shows several runt isoforms.
Nuclear factor-kappa B potently up-regulates the promoter activity of RANTES, a chemokine that blocks HIV infection.
The complex network of cytokines that are involved in inflammatory and immunoregulatory responses plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of HIV infection.
RANTES -LRB- regulated upon activation, normal T cell expressed and secreted -RRB- is a cytokine that belongs to the beta-chemokine family ; it is chemoattractant for CD4 + / CD45RO T cells, it is produced by various cell types including CD8 + and CD4 + T cells as well as monocytes/macrophages, and has recently been shown to suppress replication of macrophage-tropic strains of HIV in CD4 + T cells.
To investigate the molecular mechanisms of RANTES expression, the RANTES promoter region was analyzed by transient expression and gel-mobility shift assays.
We demonstrate that : 1 -RRB- RANTES promoter activity is up-regulated by PMA plus ionomycin, coexpression of the p65 subunit of nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappa B, the proinflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha and IL-1 beta, and the CD28 costimulatory pathway ; 2 -RRB- the RANTES promoter region contains four NF-kappa B binding sites at positions -30, -44, -213, and -579 relative to the transcription start site ; 3 -RRB- one site -LRB- -213 -RRB- is an NF-AT -LRB- nuclear factor of activated T cells -RRB- binding site that also has weak affinity to NF-kappa B, and the most distal site -LRB- -579 -RRB- also serves as a CD28-responsive element ; and 4 -RRB- mutation on any of those NF-kappa B sites or coexpression of I kappa B alpha -LRB- cytoplasmic inhibitor of NF-kappa B -RRB- markedly reduced the promoter activity.
Thus, NF-kappa B, a potent transcriptional activator of HIV expression, is also involved in the expression of RANTES, a chemokine that blocks infection by macrophage-tropic strains of HIV.
HIV does not replicate in naive CD4 T cells stimulated with CD3/CD28.
In this report, we demonstrate that the T cell tropic strain of HIV, LAI, does not replicate in naive CD4 T cells stimulated by cross-linking CD3 and CD28.
In contrast, LAI replicates well in memory CD4 T cells stimulated in the same way.
Unlike this physiologically relevant stimulation, PHA stimulates productive LAI replication in both naive and memory T cells.
These studies were conducted with highly purified -LRB- FACS-isolated -RRB- subsets of CD4 T cells identified by expression of both CD45RA and CD62L.
Remixing of purified T cells showed that naive T cells do not suppress LAI replication in memory T cells and that memory T cells do not restore LAI expression in naive T cells.
The suppression of productive LAI replication in naive T cells is not due to differential expression of viral coreceptors, nor is it due to inhibition of activation of the important HIV transcription factors, nuclear factor-kappaB and activator protein-1.
The inherent resistance of naive T cells to productive HIV infection, coupled with their proliferative advantage as demonstrated here, provides a sound basis for proposed clinical therapies using ex vivo expansion and reinfusion of CD4 T cells from HIV-infected adults.
Neuronal -LRB- type I -RRB- nitric oxide synthase regulates nuclear factor kappaB activity and immunologic -LRB- type II -RRB- nitric oxide synthase expression.
Nitric oxide subserves diverse physiologic roles in the nervous system.
NO is produced from at least three different NO synthase -LRB- NOS -RRB- isoforms : neuronal NOS -LRB- nNOS -RRB-, endothelial NOS, and immunologic NOS -LRB- iNOS -RRB-.
We show that nNOS is the predominant isoform constitutively expressed in glia.
NO derived from nNOS in glia inhibits the transcription factor nuclear factor kappaB -LRB- NF kappaB -RRB- as NOS inhibitors enhance basal NF kappaB activation.
Pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate -LRB- PDTC -RRB- is an inhibitor of NF kappaB in most cells ; however, we show that PDTC is also a potent scavenger of NO through formation of mononitrosyl iron complexes with PDTC.
In Jurkat cells, a human T-cell lymphoma cell line, tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- induces NF kappaB activation that is inhibited by PDTC.
In astrocytes PDTC also dramatically induces the NF kappaB-dependent enzyme, iNOS, supporting the physiologic relevance of endogenous NO regulation of NF kappaB.
NF kappaB activation in glia from mice lacking nNOS responds more rapidly to PDTC compared with astrocytes from wild-type mice.
Control of NFATx1 nuclear translocation by a calcineurin-regulated inhibitory domain.
The nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB- regulates cytokine gene expression in T cells through cis-acting elements located in the promoters of several cytokine genes.
NFATx1, which is preferentially expressed in the thymus and peripheral blood leukocytes, is one of four members of the NFAT family of transcription factors.
We have performed domain analysis of NFATx1 by examining the effects of deletion mutations.
We also identified a potent inhibitory sequence within its N-terminal domain.
We show that the inactivation of the inhibition was dependent on the activity of calcineurin, a calcium-calmodulin-dependent phosphatase.
We also show that calcineurin associated with the N-terminal domain of NFATx1 at multiple docking sites and caused a reduction of size, indicative of dephosphorylation, in NFATx1.
We have mapped the inhibitory activity to less than 60 residues, containing motifs that are conserved in all NFAT proteins.
Finally, we demonstrate that deletion in NFATx1 of the mapped 60 residues leads to its nuclear translocation independent of calcium signaling.
Expression of LAZ3/BCL6 in follicular center -LRB- FC -RRB- B cells of reactive lymph nodes and FC-derived non-Hodgkin lymphomas.
Chromosomal translocation resulting in abnormal expression of the LAZ3/BCL6 gene in B cells has been implicated in the tumorigenesis of non-Hodgkin lymphoma -LRB- NHL -RRB-.
Therefore we studied the expression pattern of LAZ3/BCL6 by in situ hybridization with synthetic oligonucleotide probes in frozen tissue sections from five reactive lymph nodes and 38 B cell and non-B NHL.
In addition, we investigated the expression of LAZ3/BCL6 by Northern blot analysis on multiple human tissues.
The LAZ3/BCL6 transcript was found in a variety of tissues, including skeletal muscle, peripheral blood leukocytes, and weakly in normal lymph nodes.
In the tumor samples, expression of LAZ3/BCL6 was observed in 68 % of all B cell NHL and none of the non-B lymphomas.
All cases of follicular, mixed small and large cell lymphomas showed LAZ3/BCL6 expression confined to the neoplastic follicles.
A follicular expression pattern was also found in all non-malignant reactive lymph nodes.
Hence, the expression of LAZ3/BCL6 does not correlate to malignancy, but reflects the origin of B cells from the germinal centers.
Oxidant-regulation of gene expression in the chronically inflamed intestine.
It is becoming increasingly apparent that the chronic gut inflammation observed in the idiopathic inflammatory bowel diseases -LRB- e.g. ulcerative colitis, Crohn 's disease -RRB- is associated with enhanced production of leukocyte-derived oxidants.
Oxidants such as hydrogen peroxide are known to activate certain transcription factors such as nuclear transcription factor kappa beta.
Nuclear transcription factor kB -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- is a ubiquitous transcription factor and pleiotropic regulator of numerous genes involved in the immune and inflammatory responses.
This transcription factor is activated via the selective phosphorylation, ubiquination and degradation of its inhibitor protein I-kB thereby allowing translocation of NF-kappa B into the nucleus where it upregulates the transcription of a variety of adhesion molecules -LRB- e.g. ICAM-1, VCAM-1 -RRB-, cytokines -LRB- TNF, IL-1, IL-6 -RRB- and enzymes -LRB- iNOS -RRB-.
The proteolytic degradation of the post-translationally modified I-kappa B is known to be mediated by the 26S proteasome complex.
Two distinct pathways of interleukin-5 synthesis in allergen-specific human T-cell clones are suppressed by glucocorticoids.
Glucocorticoids -LRB- GC -RRB- have long been used as the most effective agents for the treatment of allergic diseases accompanied by eosinophilia such as chronic asthma and atopic dermatitis.
The development of chronic eosinophilic inflammation is dependent on interleukin-5 -LRB- IL-5 -RRB-, a selective eosinophil-activating factor, produced by helper T cells.
To delineate the regulatory mechanisms of human IL-5 synthesis, we established allergen-specific CD4 + T-cell clones from asthmatic patients.
GC efficiently suppressed IL-5 synthesis of T-cell clones activated via either T-cell receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- or IL-2 receptor -LRB- IL-2R -RRB-.
Induction of IL-5 mRNA upon TCR and IL-2R stimulation was totally inhibited by dexamethasone.
NF-AT and NF-kappaB were not significantly induced by IL-2 stimulation.
Our results showing that GC suppressed IL-5 production by human CD4 + T cells activated by two distinct stimuli, TCR and IL-2R stimulation, underscore the efficacy of GC in the treatment of allergic diseases via suppression of T-cell IL-5 synthesis.
Induction of relA -LRB- p65 -RRB- and I kappa B alpha subunit expression during differentiation of human peripheral blood monocytes to macrophages.
We evaluated the expression and DNA binding activity of nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappa B subunits in human peripheral blood monocytes and in monocyte-derived macrophages -LRB- MDMs -RRB-.
Constitutive DNA binding activity consisting of p50 homodimers was detected in nuclear extracts from both cell types.
An additional complex composed of p50/RelA -LRB- p65 -RRB- heterodimers appeared only in nuclear extracts from 7-day MDMs.
Immunoblot analysis showed that the p50 subunit was constitutively expressed in monocytes and MDMs.
In contrast, the RelA -LRB- p65 -RRB- subunit was barely detectable in monocytes, but its level increased markedly in MDMs.
Analysis of RelA -LRB- p65 -RRB- mRNA revealed that the stability of RelA -LRB- p65 -RRB- mRNA was significantly higher in MDMs, compared with monocytes.
In MDMs, an upregulation of I kappa B alpha synthesis as well as the appearance of a novel M -LRB- r -RRB- 40,000 form of I kappa B alpha were also observed.
Oncogenic forms of NOTCH1 lacking either the primary binding site for RBP-Jkappa or nuclear localization sequences retain the ability to associate with RBP-Jkappa and activate transcription.
Truncated forms of the NOTCH1 transmembrane receptor engineered to resemble mutant forms of NOTCH1 found in certain cases of human T cell leukemia/lymphoma -LRB- T-ALL -RRB- efficiently induce T-ALL when expressed in the bone marrow of mice.
Both truncated forms also bound to the transcription factor RBP-Jkappa in extracts prepared from human and murine T-ALL cell lines.
Transcriptional activation required the presence of a weak RBP-Jkappa-binding site within the NOTCH1 ankyrin repeat region of the intracellular domain.
Unexpectedly, a second, stronger RBP-Jkappa-binding site, which lies within the intracellular domain close to the transmembrane region and significantly augments association with RBP-Jkappa, was not needed for oncogenesis or for transcriptional activation.
In support of this interpretation, mutation of putative nuclear localization sequences decreased nuclear localization and increased transcriptional activation by membrane-bound DeltaE.
Transcriptional activation by this mutant form of membrane-bound DeltaE was approximately equivalent to that produced by intranuclear ICN.
These data are most consistent with NOTCH1 oncogenesis and transcriptional activation being independent of association with RBP-Jkappa at promoter sites.
Involvement of an SAF-like transcription factor in the activation of serum amyloid A gene in monocyte/macrophage cells by lipopolysaccharide.
Serum amyloid A -LRB- SAA -RRB- has been linked to atherosclerosis because of its ability to remodel high-density lipoprotein by the depletion of apolipoprotein A1, its ability to bind cholesterol, and its presence in the atherosclerotic plaques of coronary and carotid arteries.
In the present study, we investigated the induction mechanism of SAA gene in THP-1 monocyte/macrophage cells which play a critical role in the development of atherosclerotic fatty streak and plaque formation.
We and others have shown that SAA gene is induced in monocyte/macrophage cells by lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-.
By promoter function analysis, we show that the SAA promoter sequence between -280 and -226 can confer LPS responsiveness.
Gel electrophoretic mobility shift assay detected an induced DNA-binding activity in these cells in response to LPS.
Characterization of the DNA-binding protein by UV cross-linking, Southwestern blot, and antibody ablation/supershift assays revealed that it is similar to a recently reported nuclear factor designated SAF.
These results demonstrated that LPS-mediated SAA gene induction in monocyte/macrophage cells is primarily due to the induction of SAF activity.
A novel genetic system to isolate a dominant negative effector on DNA-binding activity of Oct-2.
Recent studies have revealed that interactions between transcription factors play an important role in regulation of gene expression in eukaryotic cells.
To isolate cDNA clones that dominantly inhibit the DNA-binding activity of Oct-2, chosen as a representative factor, we have developed a novel screening system.
This employs an Escherichia coli tester strain carrying a modified lac operon as a reporter gene, with the lac operator sequence replaced by an octamer sequence.
Oct-2 expressed in this tester strain represses the expression of the reporter gene and changes the phenotype of the cell from Lac + to Lac -.
Introduction of a cDNA expression library prepared from a human T-cell line into the Oct-2-harboring tester strain allowed selection of three Lac + clones out of 1 x 10 -LRB- 5 -RRB- transformants.
One of them, hT86, encoding a putative zinc finger protein was found to derepress beta-galactosidase activity in the Oct-2-harboring tester strain at the transcriptional level.
The strategy described here provides a new approach for studying protein-protein interactions that govern the complex regulation of gene expression.
Transcriptional induction of collagenase-1 in differentiated monocyte-like -LRB- U937 -RRB- cells is regulated by AP-1 and an upstream C/EBP-beta site.
In this report, we demonstrate that the AP-1 site and a distal promoter element regulate transcriptional induction of collagenase-1 during monocytic differentiation.
Chloramphenicol acetyltransferase expression constructs containing regions of the human collagenase-1 promoter were stably or transiently transfected into U937 cells, and reporter activity was assessed at various times after the onset of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- - mediated differentiation.
Rapid and strong induction of promoter activity was lost in constructs with a mutant AP-1 element ; however, at 16-96 h post-PMA, the mutant collagenase-1 promoter displayed AP-1 independent PMA-mediated transactivation.
The AP-1 mutant constructs also showed delayed transcriptional activation in PMA-treated fibroblasts.
T-lymphocytes from individuals with filarial inflammatory disease have increased transendothelial migration in vitro.
The in vitro transendothelial migration of circulating filarial antigen-specific T-cells was examined in Wuchereria banerofti infection.
Circulating T-cells from individuals with filaria-induced lymphatic pathology -LRB- LP -RRB- had significantly greater migration through unstimulated HUVEC monolayers than did T-cells from asymptomatic infected -LRB- MF -RRB- individuals -LRB- P = 0.04 -RRB-.
In contrast to the MF individuals where no effect was seen, transendothelial migration of 48-hr filarial antigen stimulated T-cells from LP individuals was significantly -LRB- P = 0.01 -RRB- greater than migration of 48-hr media-stimulated T-cells.
In six of seven patients examined, inhibition of the VLA-4 / VCAM-1 pathway resulted in greater than 50 % inhibition of transendothelial migration of T-cells.
Suppression by azelastine hydrochloride of NF-kappa B activation involved in generation of cytokines and nitric oxide.
The influence of the anti-allergy agent azelastine hydrochloride -LRB- Azeptin -RRB- on NF-kappa B activation associated with the generation of cytokines and nitric oxide -LRB- NO -RRB- was investigated in various kinds of human and mouse cells.
Azeptin dose-dependently suppressed both DNA and protein synthesis in human gingival fibroblasts -LRB- HF -RRB- and also suppressed blastogenesis of human peripheral blood lymphocytes -LRB- PBL -RRB-.
Generation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin 1-beta, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and interleukin-6 from 10 -LRB- -5 -RRB- M Azeptin-treated PBL and human monocytes -LRB- HM -RRB- was decreased to approximately 1/3 to 2/3 of the control levels.
In parallel with the decreased cytokine generation, each cytokine mRNA was less expressed in the presence of 10 -LRB- -5 -RRB- M Azeptin.
In addition, both inducible nitric oxide synthase-mRNA level and NO generation in mouse peritoneal macrophages were suppressed by 10 -LRB- -5 -RRB- M Azeptin.
Being compatible with those results, Azeptin -LRB- 10 -LRB- -5 -RRB- M -RRB- suppressed activation of NF-kappa B in PBL, HM and HF.
Activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated U937 cells.
During the course of serious bacterial infections, lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- interacts with monocyte/macrophage receptors, resulting in the generation of inflammatory cytokines.
Transcription factor NF-kappaB is crucial in activating the transcription of genes encoding proinflammatory cytokines.
In this paper, we demonstrate that the activation of NF-kappaB by LPS in a promonocytic cell line -LRB- U937 -RRB- followed a rather slow kinetics, depending on the rate of IkappaB-alpha inhibitor hydrolysis.
No degradation of p105 and p100 inhibitors was observed under these conditions.
The transduction pathway leading to NF-kappaB activation in U937 cells involved the intracellular generation of reactive oxygen species -LRB- ROS -RRB-, as demonstrated by the concomitant inhibitory effects of antioxidants on NF-kappaB activation and the emission of a fluorescent probe reacting intracellularly with hydrogen peroxide.
This ROS pathway was also characterized by the use of other inhibitors.
We report here that the signaling cascade triggered by interleukin-4 -LRB- IL-4 -RRB- or anti-CD40 monoclonal antibody -LRB- mAb -RRB- participates in NF-kappa B activation responsible for germline C epsilon transcription in a human Burkitt lymphoma B cell line, DND39.
Both IL-4 and anti-CD40 mAb induced activation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase -LRB- PI3-kinase -RRB-, translocation of a zeta isoform of protein kinase C, and nuclear expression of NF-kappa B..
All such events were abrogated by treatment with LY294002, a specific inhibitor of PI3-kinase.
NAC was also effective in diminishing germline C epsilon transcription, and its potency was higher in cultures costimulated with IL-4 and anti-CD40 mAb than in those stimulated with IL-4 alone.
Regulation of the tissue factor gene in human monocytic cells.
Role of AP-1, NF-kappa B/Rel, and Sp1 proteins in uninduced and lipopolysaccharide-induced expression.
Tissue factor -LRB- TF -RRB- expression by peripheral blood monocytes during sepsis initiates intravascular thrombosis.
Bacterial lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- rapidly induces TF gene transcription in monocytes.
The human TF promoter contains binding sites for the transcription factors AP-1, c-Rel/p65, Egr-1, and Sp1.
NF-kappa B/Rel proteins have been shown to physically interact with both AP-1 and Sp1 proteins.
In this study, we investigated the role of these transcription factors in uninduced and LPS-induced TF gene expression in human monocytic THP-1 cells.
The two AP-1 sites bound c-Fos/c-Jun heterodimers in both unstimulated and LPS-stimulated cells.
Maximal LPS induction of the TF promoter required the two AP-1 sites and the kappa B site within the LPS response element.
Disruption of the conserved spacing between the proximal AP-1 site and the kappa B site abolished LPS induction.
Synergistic transactivation of the LPS response element in Drosophila Schneider cells by coexpression of c-Fos, c-Jun, c-Rel, and p65 or c-Jun and p65 required the transactivation domains of c-Jun and p65.
Physical interactions between Ets and NF-kappaB/NFAT proteins play an important role in their cooperative activation of the human immunodeficiency virus enhancer in T cells.
The transcriptional regulatory elements of many inducible T-cell genes contain adjacent or overlapping binding sites for the Ets and NF-kappaB/NFAT families of transcription factors.
In the studies described in this report, we demonstrated a physical interaction between multiple Ets and NF-kappaB/NFAT proteins both in vitro and in activated normal human T cells.
This interaction is mediated by the Ets domain of Ets proteins and the C-terminal region of the Rel homology domains of NF-kappaB/NFAT proteins.
In addition, the Ets-NF-kappaB/NFAT interaction requires the presence of DNA binding sites for both proteins, as it is abolished by the DNA intercalating agents propidium iodide and ethidium bromide and enhanced by the presence of synthetic oligonucleotides containing binding sites for Ets and NF-kappaB proteins.
The T cell activation factor NF-ATc positively regulates HIV-1 replication and gene expression in T cells.
Clinical deterioration in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- infection is associated with increased levels of viral replication and burden in the peripheral blood and lymphoid organs.
We report that certain NF-AT -LRB- Rel -RRB- family members productively bind the kappaB regulatory elements, synergize with NF-kappaB and Tat in transcriptional activation of HIV-1, and enhance HIV-1 replication in T cells.
These results link regulatory factors critical to T cell commitment directly to HIV-1 replication.
Differentiation of T-helper lymphocytes : selective regulation by members of the STAT family of transcription factors.
Interleukin-4 -LRB- IL-4 -RRB- and interleukin-12 -LRB- IL-12 -RRB- control the differentiation of T-helper cells.
Here we summarize studies which investigate the mechanism by which these cytokines selectively reprogramme gene expression in T-lymphocytes.
Cytokine stimulation leads to the phosphorylation of specific tyrosine residues within the intracellular domain of the corresponding cytokine receptor.
These phosphotyrosines serve as docking sites for latent, cytoplasmic transcription factors known as signal transducers and activators of transcription -LRB- Stat -RRB- proteins.
Receptor/Stat interaction is mediated by the src homology 2 -LRB- SH2 -RRB- domain of the corresponding Stat protein.
Although Stat binding to the intracellular domain of the cytokine receptor strongly depends on the phosphotyrosine residue, the recruitment of a specific Stat protein is dictated by amino acid residues C-terminal to the phosphotyrosine.
Specific docking sites within individual cytokine receptors have been identified for almost all Stat proteins.
The direct coupling between cytokine receptor and transcription factor helps to explain how different cytokines elicit distinct patterns of gene expression.
A negative regulatory region containing a glucocorticosteroid response element -LRB- nGRE -RRB- in the human interleukin-1beta gene.
Interleukin-1 beta -LRB- IL-1beta -RRB- is one of the most important inflammatory mediators in human inflammatory and immunological diseases.
The regulation of human IL-1beta gene expression has been studied for several years, and a few regulatory elements have been discovered in the promoter region.
We have identified a negative regulatory element located in the region between -685 and -395.
Within this region, a 19-bp nuclear factor binding site -LRB- -570 to -552 -RRB- was characterized by DNase I footprinting and electromobility shift assay.
A consensus sequence for a negative glucocorticoid response element -LRB- nGRE -RRB- and a transcription activator protein-2 binding site were noted within this footprint.
Functional studies showed a 2.5-fold increase in promoter activity when this 19-bp binding site was deleted in the reporter constructs IL-1beta / CAT and IL-1beta / SV40 promoter/CAT.
Dexamethasone -LRB- 10 -LRB- -8 -RRB- M -RRB- repressed chloramphenicol acetyltransferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- production by 75 % in the wild-type fragment but not in a deletion mutant lacking the 19-bp site.
A protein of about 150 kD that bound to this negative regulatory sequence was identified by UV cross-linking.
This is the first description of a negative regulatory region responsive to glucocorticoids in a cytokine gene.
TRAMP, a novel apoptosis-mediating receptor with sequence homology to tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 and Fas -LRB- Apo-1 / CD95 -RRB-.
A novel member of the tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- receptor family, designated TRAMP, has been identified.
The structural organization of the 393 amino acid long human TRAMP is most homologous to TNF receptor 1.
TRAMP is abundantly expressed on thymocytes and lymphocytes.
Its extracellular domain is composed of four cysteine-rich domains, and the cytoplasmic region contains a death domain known to signal apoptosis.
Overexpression of TRAMP leads to two major responses, NF-kappaB activation and apoptosis.
TRAMP-induced cell death is inhibited by an inhibitor of ICE-like proteases, but not by Bcl-2.
c-Rel is a target of pentoxifylline-mediated inhibition of T lymphocyte activation.
In this paper, we studied the molecular consequences of PF treatment during lymphocyte activation.
We found that in T cells, anti-CD3-induced c-Rel expression was blocked by PF, whereas the induction of other NF-kappaB family members was not significantly affected.
However, induction of NF-AT, which has the same signaling requirements as c-Rel induction, was not inhibited by PF.
Among genes that respond to these transcription factors, IL-2 mRNA induction was suppressed by PF, whereas IL-2R -LRB- alpha -RRB- chain mRNA induction was not affected.
These observations implicated c-Rel as an IL-2 promoter factor, for which experimental support was obtained from transient transfection experiments.
In contrast with the observation in T cells, c-Rel induction was not blocked by PF in B cells.
A T cell-specific enhancer in the interleukin-3 locus is activated cooperatively by Oct and NFAT elements within a DNase I-hypersensitive site.
Interleukin-3 -LRB- IL-3 -RRB- is a cytokine that is expressed primarily in activated T cells.
Here we identified an inducible T cell-specific enhancer 14 kb upstream of the IL-3 gene that responded to activation of T cell receptor signaling pathways.
The IL-3 enhancer spanned an inducible cyclosporin A-sensitive DNase I-hypersensitive site found only in T cells.
Four NFAT-like elements exist within the enhancer.
The two most active NFAT-like elements were located at the center of the DNase I-hypersensitive site.
One of these NFAT-like elements encompassed overlapping Oct - and NFATp/c-binding sites, which functioned in a highly synergistic manner.
Nuclear Rel-A and c-Rel protein complexes are differentially distributed within human thymocytes.
Nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- / Rel proteins are inducible transcriptional regulators of numerous cellular genes.
We have reported previously that a nuclear NF-kappa B activity was present in freshly extracted human thymocytes in the absence of in vitro treatment of these cells.
In the present report, we identified NF-kappa B proteins extracted from human thymocyte nuclei as being p50/p65 and p50/c-Rel complexes.
Immunochemical and immunofluorescent staining of thymus sections using specific Abs allowed visualization of nuclear NF-kappa B proteins in both thymocytes and nonthymocyte cells.
However, the intensity of p65 labeling was much higher in several thymocytes from the medulla.
p65, p50, and c-Rel activities were found in both CD4 - and CD8-positive thymocytes.
Alteration of a single serine in the basic domain of the Epstein-Barr virus ZEBRA protein separates its functions of transcriptional activation and disruption of latency.
The ZEBRA protein from Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- activates a switch from the latent to the lytic expression program of the virus.
ZEBRA, a member of the bZIP family of DNA-binding proteins, is a transcriptional activator capable of inducing expression from viral lytic cycle promoters.
We generated a point mutant of ZEBRA, Z -LRB- S186A -RRB-, that was not impaired in its ability to activate transcription ; however, this mutation abolished its ability to initiate the viral lytic cascade.
The mutant, containing a serine-to-alanine substitution in the DNA-binding domain of the protein, bound to several known ZEBRA-binding sites and activated transcription from reporters bearing known ZEBRA-responsive promoters but did not disrupt latency in EBV-infected cell lines.
Therefore, initiation of the EBV lytic cycle by the ZEBRA protein requires a function in addition to transcriptional activation ; a change of serine 186 to alanine in the DNA-binding domain of ZEBRA abolished this additional function and uncovered a new role for the ZEBRA protein in disruption of EBV latency.
Involvement of Egr-1 / RelA synergy in distinguishing T cell activation from tumor necrosis factor-alpha-induced NF-kappa B1 transcription.
NF-kappa B is an important transcription factor required for T cell proliferation and other immunological functions.
The NF-kappa B1 gene encodes a 105-kD protein that is the precursor of the p50 component of NF-kappa B..
Previously, we and others have demonstrated that NF-kappa B regulates the NF-kappa B1 gene.
In this manuscript we have investigated the molecular mechanisms by which T cell lines stimulated with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- and phytohemagglutin -LRB- PHA -RRB- display significantly higher levels of NF-kappa B1 encoding transcripts than cells stimulated with tumor necrosis factor-alpha, despite the fact that both stimuli activate NF-kappa B..
Characterization of the NF-kappa B1 promoter identified an Egr-1 site which was found to be essential for both the PMA/PHA-mediated induction as well as the synergistic activation observed after the expression of the RelA subunit of NF-kappa B and Egr-1.
Furthermore, Egr-1 induction was required for endogenous NF-kappa B1 gene expression, since PMA/PHA-stimulated T cell lines expressing antisense Egr-1 RNA were inhibited in their ability to upregulate NF-kappa B1 transcription.
Differentiation of U-937 promonocytic cells by etoposide and ICRF-193, two antitumour DNA topoisomerase II inhibitors with different mechanisms of action.
We have compared the action on U-937 human promonocytic leukemia cells of two DNA topoisomerase II inhibitors, namely the epipodophyllotoxin etoposide and the bisdioxopiperazine ICRF-193.
One hour pulse-treatment with 3 microM etoposide caused topoisomerase associated, primary DNA breakage, which was rapidly followed by apoptosis.
By contrast, these effects were not observed upon pulse-treatment with 6 microM ICRF-193.
However, continuous treatments with subcytotoxic concentrations of etoposide -LRB- 0.15 microM -RRB- and ICRF-193 -LRB- 0.3 microM -RRB- produced several similar effects, namely decreased cell proliferation, accumulation of cells at G2, increase in cell mass, and induction of differentiation.
Under these conditions, etoposide produced a biphasic activation of protein kinase C, which consisted in an early transient activation -LRB- from hours 1 to 6 -RRB- of the membrane-bound enzyme followed by a later activation -LRB- hour 48 -RRB- of the total, membrane-bound and cytosolic enzyme.
By contrast, ICRF-193 only provoked a late activation -LRB- from hours 72 to 96 -RRB- of the total enzyme.
When used at differentiation-inducing concentrations, both topoisomerase inhibitors caused a great stimulation of AP-1 binding activity, with maximum value at hour 12 in etoposide-treated cells and at hour 48 in ICRF-193-treated cells.
By contrast, the binding activity of the NF-kappa -LRB- B -RRB- and EGR-1 transcription factors was little affected.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- replicates more efficiently in vitro in differentiated macrophages than in freshly isolated monocytes.
We demonstrated that constitutive expression of NF-kappaB in primary human monocytes changed significantly with differentiation in vitro to monocyte-derived macrophages -LRB- MDMs -RRB- and differentiation in vivo to alveolar macrophages -LRB- AMs -RRB-.
Freshly isolated monocytes constitutively expressed high levels of transcriptionally inactive p50 homodimer which decreased with time in culture in favor of the transcriptionally active p50/p65 and p50/RelB heterodimers.
As in MDMs, AMs constitutively expressed p50/p65 and p50/RelB although at lower levels.
HIV infection of fresh monocytes failed to induce p50/p65 as seen in MDMs.
Transcription mediated by NFAT is highly inducible in effector CD4 + T helper 2 -LRB- Th2 -RRB- cells but not in Th1 cells.
Transcriptional factors of the NFAT family play an important role in regulating the expression of several cytokine genes during the immune response, such as the genes for interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- and IL-4, among others.
Upon antigen stimulation, precursor CD4 + T helper -LRB- pTh -RRB- cells proliferate and differentiate into two populations of effector cells -LRB- eTh1 and eTh2 -RRB-, each one expressing a specific pattern of cytokines that distinguishes them from their precursors.
eTh2 cells are the major source of IL-4, while gamma interferon is produced by eTh1 cells.
Here we have used reporter transgenic mice to show that DNA binding and transcriptional activities of NFAT are transiently induced during the differentiation of pTh cells into either eTh1 or eTh2 cells to mediate the expression of IL-2 as a common growth factor in both pathways.
However, although NFAT DNA binding is similarly induced in both eTh1 and eTh2 cells upon antigen stimulation, only the NFAT complexes present in eTh2 cells are able to mediate high-level transcription, and relatively little NFAT transcriptional activity was induced in eTh1 cells.
In contrast to activated pTh cells, neither eTh1 nor eTh2 cells produced significant IL-2 upon stimulation, but the high levels of NFAT transcriptional activities directly correlate with the IL-4 production induced in response to antigen stimulation in eTh2 cells.
Characterization of a mutant cell line that does not activate NF-kappaB in response to multiple stimuli.
Numerous genes required during the immune or inflammation response as well as the adhesion process are regulated by nuclear factor kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB-.
Associated with its inhibitor, I kappaB, NF-kappaB resides as an inactive form in the cytoplasm.
Upon stimulation by various agents, I kappaB is proteolyzed and NF-kappaB translocates to the nucleus, where it activates its target genes.
The transduction pathways that lead to I kappaB inactivation remain poorly understood.
In this study, we have characterized a cellular mutant, the 70/Z3-derived 1.3 E2 murine pre-B cell line, that does not activate NF-kappaB in response to several stimuli.
We demonstrate that upon stimulation by lipopolysaccharide, Taxol, phorbol myristate acetate, interleukin-1, or double-stranded RNA, I kappaB alpha is not degraded, as a result of an absence of induced phosphorylation on serines 32 and 36.
Neither a mutation in I kappaB alpha nor a mutation in p50 or relA, the two major subunits of NF-kappaB in this cell line, accounts for this phosphorylation defect.
As well as culminating in the inducible phosphorylation of I kappaB alpha on serines 32 and 36, all the stimuli that are inactive on 1.3 E2 cells exhibit a sensitivity to the antioxidant pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate -LRB- PDTC -RRB-.
In contrast, stimuli such as hyperosmotic shock or phosphatase inhibitors, which use PDTC-insensitive pathways, induce I kappaB alpha degradation in 1.3 E2.
Analysis of the redox status of 1.3 E2 does not reveal any difference from wild-type 70Z/3.
Finally, we show that two other I kappaB molecules, I kappaB beta and the recently identified I kappaB epsilon, are not degraded in the 1.3 E2 cell line following stimulation.
Our results demonstrate that 1.3 E2 is a cellular transduction mutant exhibiting a defect in a step that is required by several different stimuli to activate NF-kappaB.
Transcriptional regulation of the ferritin heavy-chain gene : the activity of the CCAAT binding factor NF-Y is modulated in heme-treated Friend leukemia cells and during monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation.
The ferritin H-chain gene promoter regulation was analyzed in heme-treated Friend leukemia cells -LRB- FLCs -RRB- and during monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation.
In the majority of cell lines studied, the regulation of ferritin expression was exerted mostly at the translational level.
We show here that the minimum region of the ferritin H-gene promoter that is able to confer transcriptional regulation by heme in FLCs to a reporter gene is 77 nucleotides upstream of the TATA box.
This cis element binds a protein complex referred to as HRF -LRB- heme-responsive factor -RRB-, which is greatly enhanced both in heme-treated FLCs and during monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation.
The CCAAT element present in reverse orientation in this promoter region of the ferritin H-chain gene is necessary for binding and for gene activity, since a single point mutation is able to abolish the binding of HRF and the transcriptional activity in transfected cells.
By competition experiments and supershift assays, we identified the induced HRF as containing at least the ubiquitous transcription factor NF-Y.
NF-Y is formed by three subunits, A, B, and C, all of which are necessary for DNA binding.
We have also observed a differential expression of the NF-YA subunit in heme-treated and control FLCs and during monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation.
Immune hyperactivation of HIV-1-infected T cells mediated by Tat and the CD28 pathway.
Human immunodeficiency virus-type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- infection is characterized by a chronic state of immune hyperactivation in patients.
Infection of human peripheral blood lymphocytes with HIV-1 in vitro resulted in increased interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- secretion in response to T cell activation via the CD3 and CD28 receptors.
Expression of the HIV-1 transactivator Tat recapitulated this phenotype and was associated with increased IL-2 secretion in response to costimulation with CD3 plus CD28.
IL-2 superinduction by Tat occurred at the transcriptional level, was mediated by the CD28-responsive element in the IL-2 promoter, and was exclusively dependent on the 29 amino acids encoded by the second exon of Tat.
Thymocytes control the CD4 gene differently from mature T lymphocytes.
We analyzed the activity of the enhancer, the promoter and the silencer of the human CD4 gene during T cell development using transgenic mice.
Immunofluorescence studies on thymic populations of mice carrying transgenes in various combinations of these regulatory DNA elements revealed that thymocytes control the CD4 gene in a different manner than mature peripheral T lymphocytes.
The 5' - positive regulatory unit, consisting of the promoter and the 5' enhancer, is already active at the CD4-CD8-double-negative -LRB- DN -RRB- stage of development.
The other studied regulatory element is the minimal CD4 silencer which inhibits CD4 gene expression in peripheral CD8 T lymphocytes.
Altogether, the CD4 gene is regulated by several positive and negative regulatory mechanisms which come into play in a developmentally coordinated manner.
Activation of the NF-kappaB transcription factor in a T-lymphocytic cell line by hypochlorous acid.
Reactive oxygen species -LRB- ROS -RRB- such as hydrogen peroxide serve as second messengers in the induction of the transcription factor NF-kappaB, and hence in the activation and replication of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- in human cells.
During inflammatory reactions, many oxidative species are produced, one of which is hypochlorous acid -LRB- HOCl -RRB-, which is responsible for the microbicidal effects of activated human polymorphonuclear leukocytes.
Treatment of a T-lymphocytic cell line with micromolar concentrations of HOCl promoted the appearance of transcription factor NF-kappaB -LRB- the heterodimer p50/p65 -RRB- in the nucleus of the cells, even in the absence of de novo protein synthesis.
Western blot analysis of the NF-kappaB inhibitory subunits -LRB- IkappaB -RRB- demonstrated that both IkappaB-alpha proteolysis and p105 processing were induced by the treatment.
NF-kappaB activation was very effective when cells were subjected to hyperthermia before being treated with HOCl.
Various antioxidants, such as pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate, p-bromophenacyl-bromide and nordihydroguaiaretic acid could strongly reduce NF-kappaB translocation, demonstrating the importance of oxidative species in the transduction mechanism.
Moreover, ACH-2 cells treated with HOCl or H2O2 released tumour necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- in the supernatants.
The importance of TNF-alpha release in NF-kappaB induction by HOCl or H2O2 was demonstrated by the fact that : -LRB- 1 -RRB- the nuclear appearance of NF-kappaB was promoted in untreated cells ; and -LRB- 2 -RRB- synergism between TNF-alpha and HOCl was detected.
Identification of nucleotide sequences that regulate transcription of the MCF13 murine leukemia virus long terminal repeat in activated T cells.
The region downstream of the enhancer -LRB- DEN -RRB- of the long terminal repeat of the mink cell focus-forming murine leukemia virus is important for viral pathogenicity.
Another important activity of DEN is its control of transcription in activated T cells, and we have determined that an NF-kappaB site is critical for this activity.
Impaired induction of c-fos/c-jun genes and of transcriptional regulatory proteins binding distinct c-fos/c-jun promoter elements in activated human T cells during aging.
The activation of transcriptional factor c-Fos/c-Jun AP-1 is essential for normal T cell responsiveness and is often impaired in T cells during aging.
Whereas T cells from young subjects stimulated with cross-linked anti-CD3epsilon mAb OKT3 plus PMA or with the lectin PHA plus PMA demonstrated considerable increases in c-Fos protein expression, the expression of c-Fos but not c-Jun was markedly reduced in stimulated T cells from certain elderly subjects.
In addition, RNase protection assays revealed that anti-CD3 / PMA-stimulated T cells from a substantial proportion of elderly subjects exhibited decreased levels of c-fos and/or c-jun mRNA compared to T cells from young subjects.
Using electrophoretic mobility shift assays, the levels of nuclear regulatory proteins recognizing the AP-1 consensus TRE motif, the proximal c-jun TRE-like promoter element, and the c-fos serum response element -LRB- SRE -RRB- were determined in resting and stimulated T cells.
Although the stimulation of T cells from young subjects resulted in coordinated increases of nuclear protein complexes binding the AP-1 TRE, c-jun TRE, and c-fos SRE DNA sequence motifs, age-related reductions in the activation of AP-1 were accompanied by decreased levels of c-jun TRE and c-fos SRE binding complexes.
Furthermore, the nuclear protein complexes binding the SRE motif induced in activated T cells of young and elderly subjects contained serum response factor and Elk-1 pointing toward age-related defects in the activation of transcriptional regulatory proteins distinct from c-jun/AP -1.
Inhibitory effect of growth hormone on TNF-alpha secretion and nuclear factor-kappaB translocation in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated human monocytes.
Several studies have pointed to a link between immune and endocrine systems, including a regulatory function of GH on monocyte activation.
The present study demonstrates that human THP-1 promonocytic cells, engineered by gene transfer to constitutively produce human growth hormone -LRB- hGH -RRB-, secreted depressed amounts of TNF-alpha in response to challenge by LPS.
The GH-induced inhibitory effect was also observed using normal human monocytes and monocyte-derived macrophages.
Inhibition of TNF-alpha production by THP-1-hGH-transfected cells cultured in the presence of LPS is dependent on a selective pathway, since no inhibition of TNF-alpha production was observed when cells were cultured in the presence of PMA.
Inhibition of TNF-alpha secretion by LPS-stimulated THP-1-hGH cells was associated with a decrease in nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-kappaB.
Differential interaction of nuclear factors with the PRE-I enhancer element of the human IL-4 promoter in different T cell subsets.
The immunomodulatory cytokine IL-4 affects cells of most hemopoietic lineages.
IL-4 is secreted by activated Th2 but not Th1 cells and plays a major role in the immune response by modulating the differentiation of naive Th cells toward the Th2 phenotype.
We have previously identified an enhancer element, PRE-I, that is essential for the function of the human IL-4 promoter.
To investigate the mechanisms responsible for tissue-specific expression of the IL-4 gene, we analyzed nuclear factors binding to the PRE-I site and compared the binding activities of these factors to the IL-4 promoter of Th1 and Th2 cells.
We show that PRE-I interacts with PMA - and PMA/ionomycin-inducible, cyclosporin A-sensitive nuclear factors.
Using anti-C/EBPbeta -LRB- NF-IL6 -RRB-, anti-C/EBPdelta -LRB- NF-IL6beta -RRB-, anti-NF-ATc, anti-NF-ATp, anti-Fos, and anti-Jun Abs we demonstrate that the previously identified PRE-I binding factor POS-1 is composed of different transcription factors in different Th cell subsets.
In the IL-4-producing Th0-like human Jurkat and mouse EL-4 cells, POS-1 -LRB- designated POS-1a -RRB- contains NF-IL6beta and Jun..
In the mouse Th2 D10 cells and in the human Th2 clones, POS-1 -LRB- designated POS-1b -RRB- contains NF-IL6beta, Jun, and NF-ATc/p.
In contrast, POS-1 was not found in nuclear extracts of human Th1 clones.
Glycation-dependent, reactive oxygen species-mediated suppression of the insulin gene promoter activity in HIT cells.
Prolonged poor glycemic control in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus patients often leads to a decline in insulin secretion from pancreatic beta cells, accompanied by a decrease in the insulin content of the cells.
As a step toward elucidating the pathophysiological background of the so-called glucose toxicity to pancreatic beta cells, we induced glycation in HIT-T15 cells using a sugar with strong deoxidizing activity, D-ribose, and examined the effects on insulin gene transcription.
The results of reporter gene analyses revealed that the insulin gene promoter is more sensitive to glycation than the control beta-actin gene promoter ; approximately 50 and 80 % of the insulin gene promoter activity was lost when the cells were kept for 3 d in the presence of 40 and 60 mM D-ribose, respectively.
In agreement with this, decrease in the insulin mRNA and insulin content was observed in the glycation-induced cells.
Also, gel mobility shift analyses using specific antiserum revealed decrease in the DNA-binding activity of an insulin gene transcription factor, PDX-1 / IPF1/STF -1.
Cloning of the novel human myeloid-cell-specific C/EBP-epsilon transcription factor.
Chicken NF-M transcription factor, in cooperation with either c-Myb or v-Myb, is active in the combinatorial activation of myeloid-cell-specific genes in heterologous cell types, such as embryonic fibroblasts.
In humans, similar effects were observed with homologous members of the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein -LRB- C/EBP -RRB- family of transcriptional regulators, especially the human homolog of chicken NF-M, C/EBP-beta -LRB- NF-IL6 -RRB-.
By using a reverse transcription-PCR-based approach and a set of primers specific for the DNA-binding domains of highly homologous members of the C/EBP family of transcriptional regulators, we have cloned a novel human gene encoding a member of the C/EBP gene family, identified as the human homolog of CRP1, C/EBP-epsilon.
A 1.2-kb cDNA encoding full-length human C/EBP-epsilon was cloned from a promyelocyte-late myeloblast-derived lambda gt11 library.
Primer extension analysis of C/EBP-epsilon mRNA detected a single major transcription start site approximately 200 bp upstream of the start codon.
The putative promoter area is similar to those of several other myeloid-cell-specific genes in that it contains no TATAAA box but has a number of purine-rich stretches with multiple sites for the factors of the Ets family of transcriptional regulators.
Northern blot analyses indicated a highly restricted mRNA expression pattern, with the strongest expression occurring in promyelocyte and late-myeloblast-like cell lines.
Western blot and immunoprecipitation studies using rabbit anti-C/EBP-epsilon antibodies raised against the N-terminal portion of C/EBP-epsilon -LRB- amino acids 1 to 115 -RRB- showed that C/EBP-epsilon is a 32-kDa nuclear phosphoprotein.
The human C/EBP-epsilon protein exhibited strong and specific binding to double-stranded DNA containing consensus C/EBP sites.
Transient tranfection of a promyelocyte cell line -LRB- NB4 -RRB- with a C/EBP-epsilon expression plasmid increased cell growth by sevenfold, while antisense C/EBP-epsilon caused a fivefold decrease in clonal growth of these cells.
Characterization of the human platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 promoter : identification of a GATA-2 binding element required for optimal transcriptional activity.
Platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- PECAM-1 -RRB- is a 130-kD member of the Ig gene superfamily that is expressed on platelets, endothelial cells, and certain leukocyte subsets.
To examine the factors controlling vascular-specific expression of PECAM-1, we cloned the 5' - flanking region of the PECAM-1 gene and analyzed its transcriptional activity.
5' - Rapid amplification of cDNA ends -LRB- 5' - RACE -RRB- analysis showed that transcription initiation occurred at several closely spaced nearby sites originating approximately 204 bp upstream from the translation start site.
Analysis of the sequence immediately upstream from the transcription initiation site -LRB- TIS -RRB- showed no canonical TATA or CAAT elements, however an initiator element commonly found in TATA-less promoters encompassed the TIS.
5' - serially truncated PECAM-1 promoter segments cloned in front of a luciferase reporter drove transcription in both a lineage - and orientation-specific manner.
Putative cis-acting control elements present within a 300-bp core promoter included two ets sites, an Sp1 site, tandem E-box domains, two GATA-associated sites -LRB- CACCC -RRB-, an AP-2 binding site, and a GATA element at -24.
Mutational analysis showed that optimal transcriptional activity required the GATA sequence at position -24, and gel-shift assays further showed that the GATA-2 transcription factor, but not GATA-1, bound to this region of the PECAM-1 promoter.
Differentiation-dependent expression of a human carboxylesterase in monocytic cells and transcription factor binding to the promoter.
Carboxylesterases play an important role in defense and clearance mechanisms of the monocyte/macrophage system.
During the differentiation process of cells from the monocytic cell line THP-1 we observed a transient transcriptional upregulation of a human carboxylesterase analyzed by means of Northern blots.
In PMA-treated THP-1 cells we could detect three major transcription initiation sites as revealed by Nuclease Protection Assay carried out with two overlapping antisense RNA probes.
We have recently cloned the carboxylesterase upstream sequence and showed its basal promoter activity in CHO cells.
Interaction of transcription factors RFX1 and MIBP1 with the gamma motif of the negative regulatory element of the hepatitis B virus core promoter.
The negative regulatory element -LRB- NRE -RRB- of the hepatitis B virus -LRB- HBV -RRB- core promoter contains three subregions which act synergistically to suppress core promoter activity.
One of these subregions, NRE gamma, is active in both HeLa cervical carcinoma cells and Huh7 hepatoma cells and was found to be bound by a protein factor present in both cell types.
Here we show that the transcription factor RFX1 can bind to NRE gamma and transactivate the core promoter through this site.
Mutations which abrogated the gene-suppressive activity of NRE gamma prevented RFX1 from binding to NRE gamma.
Evidence that calcineurin is rate-limiting for primary human lymphocyte activation.
Cyclosporine -LRB- CsA -RRB- is both a clinical immunosuppressive drug and a probe to dissect intracellular signaling pathways.
In vitro, CsA inhibits lymphocyte gene activation by inhibiting the phosphatase activity of calcineurin -LRB- CN -RRB-.
In clinical use, CsA treatment inhibits 50-75 % of CN activity in circulating leukocytes.
We modeled this degree of CN inhibition in primary human leukocytes in vitro in order to study the effect of partial CN inhibition on the downstream signaling events that lead to gene activation.
In CsA-treated leukocytes stimulated by calcium ionophore, the degree of reduction in CN activity was accompanied by a similar degree of inhibition of each event tested : dephosphorylation of nuclear factor of activated T cell proteins, nuclear DNA binding, activation of a transfected reporter gene construct, IFN-gamma and IL-2 mRNA accumulation, and IFN-gamma production.
Furthermore, the degree of CN inhibition was reflected by a similar degree of reduction in lymphocyte proliferation and IFN-gamma production in the allogeneic mixed lymphocyte cultures.
These data support the conclusion that CN activity is rate-limiting for the activation of primary human T lymphocytes.
Thus, the reduction of CN activity observed in CsA-treated patients is accompanied by a similar degree of reduction in lymphocyte gene activation, and accounts for the immunosuppression observed.
Cooperation of binding sites for STAT6 and NF kappa B/rel in the IL-4-induced up-regulation of the human IgE germline promoter.
Ig heavy chain class switching is directed by cytokines inducing transcription from unrearranged CH genes.
Subsequently, such primed cells can undergo switch recombination to express the selected new isotype.
In the case of IgE class switching, IL-4 activates the IgE germline promoter by inducing the interaction of the transcription factor STAT6 -LRB- IL-4STAT -RRB- with a responsive DNA element in the proximal region of the promoter.
This study describes the characterization of two additional cis-acting elements that interact with members of the NF kappa B/rel transcription factor family in an IL-4-independent fashion.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays show that the nucleoprotein complex formed on the upstream site -LRB- NF kappa B1 -RRB- contains the classical p50/p65 heterodimer.
IgE germline promoter reporter gene constructs carrying point mutations in the NF kappa B2 site were largely unresponsive to IL-4 stimulation in transient transfection experiments, while plasmids with similar mutations in the NF kappa B1 site responded to cytokine stimulation better than the wild-type promoter.
The NF kappa B2 effect was dependent on the presence of the STAT6 binding site, demonstrating that the NF kappa B2 motif is necessary but not sufficient for mediating cytokine up-regulation.
In addition, the combination of a NF kappa B/rel binding site and the STAT6 response element conferred IL-4 inducibility to a heterologous minimal promoter, while the individual sites had no effect.
Dual effects of LPS antibodies on cellular uptake of LPS and LPS-induced proinflammatory functions.
Human phagocytes recognize bacterial LPS -LRB- endotoxin -RRB- through membrane CD14 -LRB- mCD14 -RRB-, a proinflammatory LPS receptor.
Ab-associated changes in the uptake and cellular distribution of FITC-LPS were assessed by flow cytometry and laser scanning confocal microscopy in human CD14-transfected Chinese hamster ovary fibroblasts -LRB- CHO-CD14 cells -RRB- and human peripheral blood monocytes.
LPS core - and O-side chain-specific mAbs inhibited mCD14-mediated LPS uptake by both cell types in the presence of serum.
O-side chain-specific mAb concurrently enhanced complement-dependent LPS uptake by monocytes through complement receptor-1 -LRB- CR1 -RRB- and uptake by CHO-CD14 cells involving another heat-labile serum factor -LRB- s -RRB- and cell-associated recognition molecule -LRB- s -RRB-.
Core-specific mAb inhibited mCD14-mediated uptake of homologous and heterologous LPS, while producing less concurrent enhancement of non-mCD14-mediated LPS uptake.
The modulation by anti-LPS mAbs of mCD14-mediated LPS uptake was associated with inhibition of LPS-induced nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- translocation and TNF-alpha secretion in CHO-CD14 cells and monocytes, respectively, while mAb enhancement of non-mCD14-mediated LPS uptake stimulated these activities.
LPS-specific Abs thus mediate anti-inflammatory and proinflammatory functions, respectively, by preventing target cell uptake of LPS through mCD14 and augmenting uptake through CR1 or other cell receptors.
Human neutrophils express GH-N gene transcripts and the pituitary transcription factor Pit-1b.
Since GH stimulates the development and function of granulocytes, we investigated the expression of GH in granulocyte subsets.
By immunocytochemistry, 25 + / - 7 % of the human neutrophils were shown to express immunoreactive GH, whereas eosinophils were negative.
Reversed transcription -LRB- RT -RRB- - PCR analysis demonstrated GH mRNA in neutrophils.
Restriction analysis revealed that neutrophils express the GH-N gene but not the GH-V gene.
Furthermore, we demonstrated by western blot analysis that neutrophils express an alternatively spliced variant of the pituitary transcription factor Pit-1, designated Pit-1b.
Four P-like elements are required for optimal transcription of the mouse IL-4 gene : involvement of a distinct set of nuclear factor of activated T cells and activator protein-1 family proteins.
We previously identified the P sequence as a critical regulatory element of the human IL-4 promoter.
In the mouse IL-4 promoter, there are five elements homologous to the human P sequence designated conserved lymphokine element 0 -LRB- CLE0 -RRB-, P, P2, P3 and P4.
To characterize the role of these P-like elements and their binding factors in the native promoter, we did transient transfection and electrophoretic mobility shift assays -LRB- EMSA -RRB-.
Transfection of EL-4 cells with the IL-4 promoter-reporter constructs carrying mutated P-like elements showed that four P-like elements, CLE0, P, P2 and P4, but not P3, were required for optimal activation of the IL-4 promoter.
EMSA showed that both constitutive and inducible complexes bound to CLE0, P, P2 and P4, whereas only a constitutive complex bound to P3.
In competition and antibody supershift assays in EMSA, complexes formed with P or P2 proved to contain nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB- family proteins as major components.
Activator protein -LRB- AP -RRB- -1 family proteins interacted with CLE0, P, P2 and P4.
NFAT/AP -1 complex formed only with P and P2.
Cross-competition assays among the P-like elements revealed element-specific and common complexes.
Six tandem repeats of the P element linked to the SV40 promoter responded to phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, while that of other elements did not.
The ability of BHRF1 to inhibit apoptosis is dependent on stimulus and cell type.
To find genes that protect cells from apoptosis, we used an expression cloning strategy and identified BHRF1, an Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- early-lytic-cycle protein with distant homology to Bcl-2, as an anti-apoptosis protein.
Expression of BHRF1 in MCF-Fas cells conferred nearly complete resistance against both anti-Fas antibody and TNF-mediated apoptosis.
In addition, BHRF1 protected these cells from monocyte-mediated killing but failed to protect them from killing mediated by lymphokine-activated killer cells.
The ability of BHRF1 to protect MCF-Fas cells from apoptosis induced by various stimuli was identical to that of Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL.
Moreover, the mechanism of action of BHRF1 resembled that of Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL as it inhibited TNF - and anti-Fas-induced activation of two enzymes participating in the apoptosis pathway, cytosolic phospholipase A2 and caspase-3 / CPP32, but did not interfere with the activation of NF-kappaB-like transcription factors.
Surprisingly, expression of neither BHRF1 nor Bcl-2 in a B-cell line, BJAB, protected the cells from anti-Fas-mediated apoptosis even though they increased the survival of serum-starved cells.
Thus, the protective role of BHRF1 against apoptosis resembles that of Bcl-2 in being cell type specific and dependent on the apoptotic stimulus.
NF-AT activation induced by a CAML-interacting member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily.
Activation of the nuclear factor of activated T cells transcription factor -LRB- NF-AT -RRB- is a key event underlying lymphocyte action.
The CAML -LRB- calcium-modulator and cyclophilin ligand -RRB- protein is a coinducer of NF-AT activation when overexpressed in Jurkat T cells.
A member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily was isolated by virtue of its affinity for CAML.
Cross-linking of this lymphocyte-specific protein, designated TACI -LRB- transmembrane activator and CAML-interactor -RRB-, on the surface of transfected Jurkat cells with TACI-specific antibodies led to activation of the transcription factors NF-AT, AP-1, and NFkappaB.
TACI-induced activation of NF-AT was specifically blocked by a dominant-negative CAML mutant, thus implicating CAML as a signaling intermediate.
The DNA binding domain of the A-MYB transcription factor is responsible for its B cell-specific activity and binds to a B cell 110-kDa nuclear protein.
Expression studies as well as the use of transgenic animals have demonstrated that the A-MYB transcription factor plays central and specific role in the regulation of mature B cell proliferation and/or differentiation.
We have therefore investigated the transcriptional activity of A-MYB and its regulation in several human lymphoid cell lines using co-transfection assays and show that A-MYB is transcriptionally active in all the B cell lines studied, but not in T cells.
In particular the best responder cell line was the Burkitt 's cell line Namalwa.
The activity of A-MYB in B and not T cells was observed when either an artificial construct or the c-MYC promoter was used as a reporter.
Furthermore, the functional domains responsible for DNA binding, transactivation, and negative regulation, previously characterized in a fibroblast context, were found to have similar activity in B cells.
The region of A-MYB responsible for the B cell specific activity was defined to be the N-terminal 218 amino acids containing the DNA binding domain.
Finally, a 110-kDa protein has been identified in the nuclei of all the B, but not T, cell lines that specifically binds to this A-MYB N-terminal domain.
The role of Rel/NF-kappa B proteins in viral oncogenesis and the regulation of viral transcription.
Rel/NF-kappa B is a ubiquitous transcription factor that consists of multiple polypeptide subunits, and is subject to complex regulatory mechanisms that involve protein-protein interactions, phosphorylation, ubiquitination, proteolytic degradation, and nucleocytoplasmic translocation.
The sophisticated control of Rel/NF-kappa B activity is not surprising since this transcription factor is involved in a wide array of cellular responses to extracellular cues, associated with growth, development, apoptosis, and pathogen invasion.
This review will cover the molecular mechanisms that are utilized by mammalian oncogenic viruses to affect the activity of Rel/NF-kappa B transcription factors and the role of Rel/NF-kappa B in the regulation of viral gene expression and replication.
Abnormal apoptosis and cell cycle progression in humans exposed to methyl tertiary-butyl ether and benzene contaminating water.
2. Our study involved a group of 60 male and female subjects who were exposed to MTBE and benzene-contaminated water concentrations up to 76 PPB for MTBE and 14 PPB for benzene, for a period of 5 to 8 years.
For comparison, we recruited a control group consisting of 32 healthy males and females with similar age distribution and without a history of exposure to MTBE or benzene.
3. Peripheral blood lymphocytes -LRB- PBL -RRB- of both groups were tested for the percentage of apoptotic cells and cell cycle progression using flow cytometry.
4. When apoptotic lymphocytes from exposed individuals were compared to apoptotic lymphocytes from the control group, statistically-significant differences between each mean group were detected -LRB- 26.4 + / - 1.8 and 12.1 + / - 1.3, respectively -RRB-, indicating an increased rate of apoptosis in 80.5 % of exposed individuals -LRB- P < 0.0001, Mann-Whitney U-Test -RRB-.
MTBE and benzene-induced apoptosis is attributed to a discrete block within the cell cycle progression.
Because cell cycle analysis showed that in PBL from chemically-exposed individuals, between 20-50 % of cells were accumulated at the S-G2 / M boundaries.
5. One of the signaling molecules which mediates programmed cell death is nuclear factor Kappa-B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB-.
NF-kappa B was examined as one of the many molecular mechanisms for mediating cell death by MTBE and benzene.
Indeed, addition of inhibitors of NF-kappa B activation pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate -LRB- PDTC -RRB-, to the lymphocytes of the chemically-exposed group was capable of inhibiting programmed cell death by 40 %.
Activation of a novel gene in 3q21 and identification of intergenic fusion transcripts with ecotropic viral insertion site I in leukemia.
We have identified a novel gene, GR6, located within the leukemia breakpoint region of 3q21, that is normally expressed in early fetal development but not in adult peripheral blood.
GR6 is activated in the UCSD-AML1 cell line and in a leukemic sample, both of which carry a t -LRB- 3 ; 3 -RRB- -LRB- q21 ; q26 -RRB-.
In UCSD-AML1, we have also identified fusion transcripts between the ecotropic viral insertion site I -LRB- EVI1 -RRB- gene in 3q26 and GR6 and between EVI1 and Ribophorin I that maps 30 kb telomeric to GR6 in 3q21.
All fusions splice the 5' ends of the 3q21 genes into exon 2 of the EVI1 gene, an event that is similar to the normal intergenic splicing of MDS1-EVI1 and to those previously documented in leukemias with t -LRB- 3 ; 21 -RRB- and t -LRB- 3 ; 12 -RRB-, in which acute myelogenous leukemia 1-EVI1 fusions and ETV6-EVI1 fusions, respectively, occur.
Alcohol-induced regulation of nuclear regulatory factor-kappa beta in human monocytes.
Acute ethanol exposure has the capacity to modulate immune functions, particularly, to down regulate monocyte production of inflammatory cytokines.
Adherence-isolated monocytes showed constitutive DNA binding activity of NF-kappa B..
A clinically relevant dose -LRB- 25 mM -RRB- of acute ethanol treatment in vitro increased NF-kappa B binding activity in monocytes with a preferential induction of the inhibitory, p50/p50, NF-kappa B/Rel homodimer, and resulted in no induction of the p65/p50 heterodimer.
In contrast, lipopolysaccharide stimulation primarily induced the p65/p50 heterodimer that has been shown to result in gene activation.
The carboxyl-terminal cytoplasmic domain of CD36 is required for oxidized low-density lipoprotein modulation of NF-kappaB activity by tumor necrosis factor-alpha.
To approach this issue, we used CD36 transfected Chinese hampster ovary -LRB- CHO -RRB- cells, exposed them to Ox LDL, and determined changes in the activity of the transcription factor NF-kappaB.
We report here that Ox LDL enhanced DNA binding activity of nuclear extracts to an NF-kappaB sequence following activation of CD36-producing CHO cells with the proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB-.
This enhanced DNA binding activity was inhibited by coincubation of CD36 transfected cells with the human CD36-specific antibody OKM5.
We also determined that activation of NF-kappaB DNA binding activity required an intact carboxyl-terminal cytoplasmic segment on CD36.
Transcriptional regulation during myelopoiesis.
The coordinated production of all blood cells from a common stem cell is a highly regulated process involving successive stages of commitment and differentiation.
From analyses of mice deficient in transcription factor genes and from the characterizations of chromosome breakpoints in human leukemias, it has become evident that transcription factors are important regulators of hematopoiesis.
During myelopoiesis, which includes the development of granulocytic and monocytic lineages, transcription factors from several families are active, including AML1/CBF beta, C/EBP, Ets, c-Myb, HOX, and MZF-1.
Here we discuss recent advances in transcriptional regulation during myelopoiesis.
Genomic organization, sequence, and transcriptional regulation of the human eotaxin gene.
Eotaxin is an eosinophil specific beta-chemokine assumed to be involved in eosinophilic inflammatory diseases such as atopic dermatitis, allergic rhinitis, asthma and parasitic infections.
Its expression is stimulus - and cell-specific.
We here describe the genomic organisation -LRB- 3 exons of 132, 112 and 542 bp and 2 introns of 1211 and 378 bp -RRB- and sequence including 3 kb of DNA from the immediate 5' upstream region of the human eotaxin gene.
Rel/NF-kappa B transcription factors and the control of apoptosis.
The process of apoptosis is used to eliminate unwanted cells from a wide variety of organisms.
Various extracellular signals, often converging in common intracellular pathways, can induce apoptosis in a cell-type-specific fashion.
Recent work from several laboratories has demonstrated that Rel/NF-kappa B transcription factors regulate apoptosis in many cell types.
Suppression of MHC class II expression by human class II trans-activator constructs lacking the N-terminal domain.
The class II trans-activator -LRB- CIITA -RRB- is a bi - or multi-functional domain protein which plays a critical role in the expression of MHC class II genes.
We report that removal of the N-terminal 151 amino acids, encompassing all of the acidic domain but leaving intact the proline/serine/threonine-rich domain, results in a mutant protein with potent suppressive properties for MHC class II expression.
HeLa cells stably or transiently transfected with mutant CIITA constructs showed up to 99 % suppression of MHC class II antigen induction by IFN-gamma and marked suppression of HLA-DRA mRNA expression.
Transient transfection of a B lymphoma line resulted in up to 89 % reduction of constitutive MHC class II expression within 5 days and suppression of HLA-DRA mRNA synthesis.
Dysregulation of monocytic nuclear factor-kappa B by oxidized low-density lipoprotein.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of oxidized LDL -LRB- oxLDL -RRB- on the NF-kappa B system in human THP-1 monocytic cells as well as adherent monocytes.
Our results demonstrate that short-term incubation of these cells with oxLDL activated p50/p65 containing NF-kappa B dimers and induced the expression of the target gene IL-8.
This activation of NF-kappa B was inhibited by the antioxidant and H2O2 scavenger pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate and the proteasome inhibitor PSI.
The oxLDL-induced NF-kappa B activation was accompanied by an initial depletion of I kappa B-alpha followed by a slight transient increase in the level of this inhibitor protein.
In contrast, long-term treatment with oxLDL prevented the lipopolysaccharide-induced depletion of I kappa B-alpha, accompanied by an inhibition of both NF-kappa B activation and the expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 beta genes.
TNFalpha cooperates with the protein kinase A pathway to synergistically increase HIV-1 LTR transcription via downstream TRE-like cAMP response elements.
Activating protein-1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB- binding TPA responsive elements -LRB- TRE -RRB- are located downstream of the transcription initiation site in the U5 region of the HIV-1 long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB-.
These downstream sequence elements, termed DSE, can bind both AP-1 and CREB/ATF transcription factors.
Recently, we demonstrated that the DSE are also cAMP-responsive elements -LRB- CRE -RRB-, since they mediated activation signals elicited by cholera toxin -LRB- Ctx -RRB-, a potent activator of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase A -LRB- PKA -RRB- signal transduction pathway.
In the present study, we demonstrate that the HIV-1 DSE can mediate the transcriptional synergy elicited by the combination of Ctx and TNFalpha.
Ctx combined with TNFalpha or IL-1beta to produce a synergistic increase in p24 antigen production in U1 promonocytic cells.
Because the DSE are also TRE sites, we assessed the effect of the agonist combinations on AP-1-dependent transcription.
TNFalpha as well as IL-1beta cooperated with Ctx to produce a synergistic activation of AP-1-mediated transcription.
Copyright 1997 Academic Press.
CD30-dependent degradation of TRAF2 : implications for negative regulation of TRAF signaling and the control of cell survival.
CD30 is a cell-surface receptor that can augment lymphocyte activation and survival through its ability to induce the transcription factor NF-kappaB.
CD30, however, has also been implicated in the induction of apoptotic cell death of lymphocytes.
Here we show that one of the effects of CD30 signal transduction is to render cells sensitive to apoptosis induced by the type 1 tumor necrosis factor receptor -LRB- TNFR1 -RRB-.
This sensitization is dependent on the TRAF-binding sites within the CD30 cytoplasmic domain.
One of the proteins that binds to these sites is TRAF2, a signal transduction molecule that is also utilized by TNFR1 to mediate the activation of several downstream kinases and transcription factors.
During CD30 signal transduction, we found that binding of TRAF2 to the cytoplasmic domain of CD30 results in the rapid depletion of TRAF2 and the associated protein TRAF1 by proteolysis.
Depletion of intracellular TRAF2 and its coassociated proteins also increased the sensitivity of the cell to undergoing apoptosis during activation of death-inducing receptors such as TNFR1.
Consistent with this hypothesis, expression of a dominant-negative form of TRAF2 was found to potentiate TNFR1-mediated death.
Suppression of nuclear factor kappa B and CD18-mediated leukocyte adhesion to the corneal endothelium by dexamethasone.
METHODS : Cultured bovine corneal endothelium was stimulated for 6 hours by 40 micron/ml tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNFalpha -RRB-.
Dexamethasone was added 1 hour before TNFalpha stimulation in the dexamethasone group.
After stimulation, neutrophils separated from a healthy human volunteer were added with or without anti-CD18 antibody.
The culture plate was settled for 15 minutes at 37 degrees C, and then neutrophils were activated by N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine for 5 minutes.
Nonadherent neutrophils were removed by sealing and inverting the culture well.
The intracellular localization of NFkappaB after TNFalpha simulation was determined by confocal immunocytochemistry using an anti-p65 antibody.
RESULTS : Neutrophil adhesion to cultured corneal endothelial cells increased significantly on exposure to TNFalpha -LRB- 451.4 + / -45.4 cells/mm2, n = 16 -RRB- compared to control -LRB- 156.7 + / -27.3 cells/mm2, n = 16, P < 0.01 -RRB-.
This increased adhesion was suppressed by the addition of anti-CD18 antibody -LRB- 157.6 + / -25.1 cells/mm2, n = 8, P < 0.01 -RRB- and by pretreatment with 10 -LRB- -7 -RRB- M dexamethasone -LRB- 207.9 + / -31.5 cells/mm2, n = 10, P < 0.01 -RRB-.
Immunocytochemistry 60 minutes after stimulation revealed that NFkappaB was located in the cytoplasm in unstimulated cells ; however, the addition of TNFalpha caused NFkappaB to translocate into the nucleus.
Pretreatment with dexamethasone tapered NFkappaB translocation into the nucleus.
CONCLUSIONS : Leukocyte adhesion to the corneal endothelium was shown to be mediated by CD18 expressed on activated leukocytes.
Blockade of T-cell activation by dithiocarbamates involves novel mechanisms of inhibition of nuclear factor of activated T cells.
Dithiocarbamates -LRB- DTCs -RRB- have recently been reported as powerful inhibitors of NF-kappaB activation in a number of cell types.
We show here that DTCs inhibited both interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- synthesis and membrane expression of antigens which are induced during T-cell activation.
This inhibition, which occurred with a parallel activation of c-Jun transactivating functions and expression, was reflected by transfection experiments at the IL-2 promoter level, and involved not only the inhibition of NF-kappaB-driven reporter activation but also that of nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB-.
Furthermore, PDTC differentially targeted both NFATp and NFATc family members, inhibiting the transactivation functions of NFATp and mRNA induction of NFATc.
Involvement of different transduction pathways in NF-kappa B activation by several inducers.
Double-stimulation was used to demonstrate that, in a T lymphocytic cell line -LRB- CEM -RRB-, phorbol myristate acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- rapidly induced NF-kappa B through a signaling pathway which did not involve reactive oxygen species -LRB- ROS -RRB- and was different from the activation triggered by either H2O2 or tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB-.
Since these latter compounds were known to activate NF-kappa B translocation in a redox-sensitive way, we have demonstrated that NF-kappa B activation by PMA was resistant to antioxidant N-acetyl-L-cysteine -LRB- NAC -RRB- and sensitive to kinase inhibitors staurosporine and H7 while activation by H2O2 or TNF-alpha were not.
Helenalin, an anti-inflammatory sesquiterpene lactone from Arnica, selectively inhibits transcription factor NF-kappaB -LSB- see comments -RSB-.
Alcoholic extracts prepared form Arnicae flos, the collective name for flowerheads from Arnica montana and A. chamissonis ssp. foliosa, are used therapeutically as anti-inflammatory remedies.
The active ingredients mediating the pharmacological effect are mainly sesquiterpene lactones, such as helenalin, 11alpha,13-dihydrohelenalin, chamissonolid and their ester derivatives.
While these compounds affect various cellular processes, current data do not fully explain how sesquiterpene lactones exert their anti-inflammatory effect.
We show here that helenalin, and, to a much lesser degree, 11alpha,13-dihydrohelenalin and chamissonolid, inhibit activation of transcription factor NF-kappaB.
NF-kappaB, which resides in an inactive, cytoplasmic complex in unstimulated cells, is activated by phosphorylation and degradation of its inhibitory subunit, IkappaB.
Helenalin inhibits NF-kappaB activation in response to four different stimuli in T-cells, B-cells and epithelial cells and abrogates kappaB-driven gene expression.
This inhibition is selective, as the activity of four other transcription factors, Oct-1, TBP, Sp1 and STAT 5 was not affected.
We show that inhibition is not due to a direct modification of the active NF-kappaB heterodimer.
Rather, helenalin modifies the NF-kappaB/IkappaB complex, preventing the release of IkappaB.
Induction of endothelial cell surface adhesion molecules by tumor necrosis factor is blocked by protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitors : role of the nuclear transcription factor NF-kappa B..
Since TNF is one of the major inducers of various adhesion molecules in human endothelial cells and their expression is known to require the activation of NF-kappa B, we examined the effect of PTPase inhibitors on the TNF-mediated induction of intracellular adhesion molecule -LRB- ICAM -RRB- -1, vascular cell adhesion molecule -LRB- VCAM -RRB- -1 and endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule -LRB- ELAM -RRB- -1.
Like ML-1a, human dermal microvessel endothelial cells -LRB- MVEC -RRB- treated with TNF rapidly activated -LRB- within 30 min -RRB- NF-kappa B ; this effect was completely abolished by co-treatment with phenylarsine oxide -LRB- PAO -RRB-, a specific inhibitor of PTPase.
The induction of ICAM-1, VCAM-1, and ELAM-1 by TNF in MVEC occurred within 6 h and was also completely down-regulated by PAO in a dose-dependent manner.
Besides PAO, other inhibitors of PTPase, including pervanadate and diamide, also blocked TNF-dependent NF-kappa B activation and induction of all the three adhesion proteins.
Consistent with these results, the attachment of monocytes to MVEC was also blocked by the PTPase inhibitors.
The tax protein of human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 mediates the transactivation of the c-sis/platelet-derived growth factor-B promoter through interactions with the zinc finger transcription factors Sp1 and NGFI-A/Egr -1.
In previous work, we identified an essential site in the c-sis/PDGF-B promoter, Tax-responsive element 1 -LRB- TRE1 -RRB-, necessary for transactivation by Tax.
We also identified Sp1, Sp3, and NGFI-A/Egr -1 as the primary nuclear transcription factors binding to TRE1 which mediate Tax responsiveness.
In the present work, we have investigated the mechanism -LRB- s -RRB- whereby Tax transactivates the c-sis/PDGF-B proto-oncogene.
In vitro transcription assays showed that Tax was able to significantly increase the transcriptional activity of a template containing the -257 to +74 region of the c-sis/PDGF-B promoter.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assay analysis showed that Tax increased the DNA binding activity of both Sp1 and NGFI-A/Egr -1 using a TRE1 probe.
Analysis of Tax mutants showed that two mutants, IEXC29S and IEXL320G, were unable to significantly transactivate the c-sis/PDGF-B promoter.
Finally, co-immunoprecipitation analysis revealed that Tax is able to stably bind to both Sp1 and NGFI-A/Egr -1.
Interestingly, co-immunoprecipitation analysis also revealed that Tax mutant IEXC29S is unable to interact with NGFI-A/Egr -1, whereas Tax mutant IEXL320G is able to interact with NGFI-A/Egr -1.
Transcriptional activation of the vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 gene in T lymphocytes expressing human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 Tax protein.
Recruitment and extravasation of T cells through the blood-brain barrier are favored by adhesion molecule-mediated interactions of circulating T cells with endothelial cells.
Since a common pathological finding in human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 -LRB- HTLV-1 -RRB- - associated diseases is the infiltration of HTLV-1-infected T lymphocytes into various organs, we have looked for the profile of adhesion molecules expressed by HTLV-1-transformed T cells.
This adhesion molecule was also expressed by T cells obtained from one patient with HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis but not by activated T cells isolated from one normal blood donor.
The role of the viral trans-activator Tax protein in the induction of VCAM-1 was first indicated by the detection of this adhesion molecule on Jurkat T-cell clones stably expressing the tax gene.
The effect of Tax on VCAM-1 gene transcription was next confirmed in JPX-9 cells, a subclone of Jurkat cells, carrying the tax sequences under the control of an inducible promoter.
Furthermore, deletion and mutation analyses of the VCAM-1 promoter performed with chloramphenicol acetyltransferase constructs revealed that Tax was trans activating the VCAM-1 promoter via two NF-kappaB sites present at bp -72 and -57 in the VCAM-1 gene promoter, with both of them being required for the Tax-induced expression of this adhesion molecule.
Finally, gel mobility shift assays demonstrated the nuclear translocation of proteins specifically bound to these two NF-kappaB motifs, confirming that VCAM-1 was induced on Tax-expressing cells in a kappaB-dependent manner.
The spatial distribution of human immunoglobulin genes within the nucleus : evidence for gene topography independent of cell type and transcriptional activity.
The three-dimensional positioning of immunoglobulin -LRB- Ig -RRB- genes within the nucleus of human cells was investigated using in situ hybridization and confocal microscopy.
The visualization of heavy and light chain genes in B-lymphoid cells showed that the three Ig genes are differentially and nonrandomly distributed in different nuclear subvolumes : the kappa genes were found to be preferentially confined to an outer nuclear volume, whereas the gamma and lambda genes consistently occupied more central positions within the nucleus, the lambda genes being more interior when compared with the gamma genes.
The data further show that these overall topographical distributions are independent of gene transcriptional activity and are conserved in different cell types.
Analysis of myeloid-associated genes in human hematopoietic progenitor cells.
The distribution of myeloid lineage-associated cytokine receptors and lysosomal proteins was analyzed in human CD34 + cord blood cell -LRB- CB -RRB- subsets at different stages of myeloid commitment by reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction -LRB- RT-PCR -RRB-.
The highly specific granulomonocyte-associated lysosomal proteins myeloperoxidase -LRB- MPO -RRB- and lysozyme -LRB- LZ -RRB-, as well as the transcription factor PU .1, were already detectable in the most immature CD34 + Thy-1 + subset.
Messenger RNA -LRB- mRNA -RRB- levels for the granulocyte-colony stimulating factor -LRB- G-CSF -RRB- receptor, granulocyte-macrophage -LRB- GM -RRB- - CSF receptor alpha subunit and tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- receptors I -LRB- p55 -RRB- and II -LRB- p75 -RRB- were also detected in this subset in addition to c-kit and flt-3, receptors known to be expressed on progenitor cells.
By contrast, the monocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor -LRB- M-CSF -RRB- receptor was largely absent at this stage and in the CD34 + Thy-1-CD45RA - subsets.
The M-CSF receptor was first detectable in the myeloid-committed CD34 + Thy-l-CD45RA + subset.
All other molecules studied were found to be expressed at this stage of differentiation.
Different cocktails of the identified ligands were added to sorted CD34 + Thy-1 + single cells.
Low proliferative capacity was observed after 1 week in culture in the presence of stem cell factor -LRB- SCF -RRB- + Flt-3 ligand -LRB- FL -RRB- + G-CSF.
Addition of GM-CSF to this basic cocktail consistently increased the clonogenic capacity of single CD34 + Thy-1 + cells, and this effect was further enhanced -LRB- up to 72.3 + / - 4.3 % on day 7 -RRB- by the inclusion of TNF-alpha.
In conclusion, the presence of myeloid-associated growth factor receptor transcripts in CD34 + CB subsets does not discriminate the various stages of differentiation, with the exception of the M-CSF receptor.
In addition, we show that TNF-alpha is a potent costimulatory factor of the very immature CD34 + Thy-1 + CB subset.
Interleukin-7 upregulates the interleukin-2-gene expression in activated human T lymphocytes at the transcriptional level by enhancing the DNA binding activities of both nuclear factor of activated T cells and activator protein-1.
In the present report, we studied the role of the stromal-derived cytokine interleukin-7 -LRB- IL-7 -RRB- in the IL-2-gene regulation in activated T lymphocytes.
Production of IL-2 requires the formation of transcription factors involved in the IL-2-gene regulation.
T-cell receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- / CD3 engagement results in the activation of nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB-, activator protein-1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB-, and nuclear factor kappaB -LRB- NFkappaB -RRB-, whereas the CD28 responsive complex -LRB- CD28RC -RRB- is activated in response to the CD28 signal.
Costimulation of phytohemagglutinin/anti-CD 28 activated T lymphocytes with IL-7 induces a fivefold enhanced IL-2-mRNA accumulation and a 2.5-fold enhanced protein secretion.
The molecular mechanisms underlying the IL-7 effect involve the upregulation of the DNA binding activity of NFAT -LRB- 60 % -RRB- and AP-1 -LRB- 120 % -RRB-, without affecting the activities of NFkappaB and CD28RC, which was confirmed by transfection assays.
We also show that the IL-7-induced enhancement of the AP-1-DNA binding activity is not cyclosporin A-sensitive.
Since AP-1 is part of the NFAT complex, we conclude that the IL-7-signaling pathway is involved in the activation of the fos and jun proteins of which AP-1 consists.
HIV-1 Vpr suppresses immune activation and apoptosis through regulation of nuclear factor kappa B -LSB- see comments -RSB-.
The HIV-1 accessory gene product Vpr can influence viral pathogenesis by affecting viral replication as well as host cell transcription and proliferation.
We have investigated the effects of Vpr on host cell activation and confirm that it influences cellular proliferation.
However, we have also found that Vpr modulates T-cell receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- - triggered apoptosis in a manner similar to that of glucocorticoids.
In the absence of TCR-mediated activation, Vpr induces apoptosis whereas in its presence, Vpr interrupts the expected induction of apoptosis.
This regulation of apoptosis is linked to Vpr suppression of NF-kappa B activity via the induction of I kappa B, an inhibitor of NF-kappa B..
Further, Vpr suppresses expression of IL-2, IL-10, IL-12, TNF alpha and IL-4, all of which are NF-kappa B-dependent.
The effects of Vpr could be reversed by RU486.
Monochloramine inhibits phorbol ester-inducible neutrophil respiratory burst activation and T cell interleukin-2 receptor expression by inhibiting inducible protein kinase C activity.
Monochloramine derivatives are long lived physiological oxidants produced by neutrophils during the respiratory burst.
The effects of chemically prepared monochloramine -LRB- NH2Cl -RRB- on protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- and PKC-mediated cellular responses were studied in elicited rat peritoneal neutrophils and human Jurkat T cells.
Neutrophils pretreated with NH2Cl -LRB- 30-50 microM -RRB- showed a marked decrease in the respiratory burst activity induced by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB-, which is a potent PKC activator.
These cells, however, were viable and showed a complete respiratory burst upon arachidonic acid stimulation, which induces the respiratory burst by a PKC-independent mechanism.
The NH2Cl-treated neutrophils showed a decrease in both PKC activity and PMA-induced phosphorylation of a 47-kDa protein, which corresponds to the cytosolic factor of NADPH oxidase, p47 -LRB- phox -RRB-.
Jurkat T cells pretreated with NH2Cl -LRB- 20-70 microM -RRB- showed a decrease in the expression of the interleukin-2 receptor alpha chain following PMA stimulation.
This was also accompanied by a decrease in both PKC activity and nuclear transcription factor-kappaB activation, also without loss of cell viability.
These results show that NH2Cl inhibits PKC-mediated cellular responses through inhibition of the inducible PKC activity.
Thiol modulation inhibits the interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -1 - mediated activation of an IL-1 receptor-associated protein kinase and NF-kappa B..
The interleukin-1 receptor type I -LRB- IL-1RI -RRB- is associated with other proteins thus forming a complex system by which IL-1 exerts its various signals.
A murine T cell line, EL4, was stimulated with IL-1 with and without pretreatment with different compounds known to influence the cellular redox status.
Thiol modifying agents like diamide, menadione, pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate -LRB- PDTC -RRB-, diethyl dithiocarbamate or phenylarsine oxide inhibited the IL-1-induced activation of the IL-1RI-associated protein kinase.
N-Acetylcysteine, alpha, alpha' - dipyridyl, aminotriazole or nitrofurantoin did not show any effect.
The inhibition by PDTC was reversible unless glutathione synthesis was blocked by buthionine sulfoximine.
The described conditions which inhibited or prevented the activation of the IL-1RI-associated kinase similarly impaired the activation of NF-kappa B in EL4 cells.
From these observations we conclude that free thiols in the IL-1RI complex are essential for the activation of the IL-1RI-associated protein kinase and that this process is mandatory for IL-1 signaling leading to NF-kappa B activation.
ATF1 and CREB trans-activate a cell cycle regulated histone H4 gene at a distal nuclear matrix associated promoter element.
Proteins of the ATF/CREB class of transcription factors stimulate gene expression of several cell growth-related genes through protein kinase A-related cAMP response elements.
The promoter activity of cell cycle regulated histone H4 genes is regulated by at least four principal cis-acting elements which mediate G1/S phase control and/or enhancement of transcription during the cell cycle.
Using protein-DNA interaction assays we show that the H4 promoter contains two ATF/CREB recognition motifs which interact with CREB, ATF1, and ATF2 but not with ATF4/CREB2.
One ATF/CRE motif is located in the distal promoter at the nuclear matrix-associated Site IV, and the second motif is present in the proximal promoter at Site I..
Both ATF/CRE motifs overlap binding sequences for the multifunctional YY1 transcription factor, which has previously been shown to be nuclear matrix associated.
Site-directed mutational studies demonstrate that Site I and Site IV together support ATF1 - and CREB-induced trans-activation of the H4 promoter.
Thus, our data establish that ATF/CREB factors functionally modulate histone H4 gene transcription at distal and proximal promoter elements.
Molecular cloning and functional characterization of murine cDNA encoding transcription factor NFATc.
Transcription factors of the NFAT -LRB- nuclear factor of activated T cells -RRB- family play important roles in immune and inflammatory responses by regulating the expression of genes encoding cytokines and immunoregulatory proteins.
Here we describe cloning and characterization of full-length cDNA encoding murine -LRB- m -RRB- NFATc which predicts that the protein has all the conserved structural motifs of NFAT family members, including the rel homology domain, the NFAT homology domain and the nuclear translocation signals.
mNFATc complexed with AP-1 bound specifically to the murine IL-2 NFAT recognition sequence and activated transcription from the co-transfected IL-2 promoter in COS-7 cells.
Northern blot analysis showed that the cDNA probe hybridized with a 4.5 kb transcript which is highly inducible in murine T cells.
By Northern and in situ hybridization, mNFATc transcript was detected from the early stage of development.
Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase couples the interleukin-2 receptor to the cell cycle regulator E2F.
Cell cycle progression initiated by interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- in T cells is critical for lymphoproliferation and an immune response.
Phosphatidyl inositol 3-kinase -LRB- PI3K -RRB- is activated by IL-2.
Here we identify the cell cycle regulator E2F as an IL-2 target in T lymphocytes and PI3K as the critical signaling pathway.
We eliminate both Stat5 and Raf/MEK pathways from E2F regulation.
Protein kinase B -LRB- PKB -RRB- is activated by IL-2 via PI3K.
The expression of an active PKB is sufficient to induce E2F activity.
Inhibition of PI3K inhibits phosphorylation of Rb, induction of cyclin D3, and degradation of p27kip1.
These results establish a crucial PI3K/PKB-mediated link between the IL-2 teceptor and the cell cycle machinery.
Regulation of nuclear factor-kappa B and its inhibitor I kappa B-alpha/MAD -3 in monocytes by Mycobacterium tuberculosis and during human tuberculosis.
Blood monocytes from patients with active tuberculosis are activated in vivo, as evidenced by an increase in the stimulated release of proinflammatory cytokines, such as TNF-alpha, and the spontaneous expression of IL-2R.
Further, monocytes from patients demonstrate an augmented susceptibility to a productive infection with HIV-1 in vitro.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis and its components are strong signals to activate monocytes to production of cytokines.
In this study we examined the basis of activation of monocytes during active tuberculosis and by M. tuberculosis.
We found a constitutive degradation of I kappa B-alpha, the major cytoplasmic inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB-, in freshly isolated PBMC and monocytes from patients with tuberculosis.
In contrast, I kappa B-alpha levels in PBMC and monocytes from healthy subjects or from patients with nontuberculous pulmonary conditions were intact.
Further, by electrophoretic mobility shift assay, NF-kappa B was activated in monocytes from tuberculous patients.
The expression of I kappa B-alpha gene, which is responsive to activation by NF-kappa B, was up-regulated in PBMC and monocytes from patients, but not in mononuclear cells from healthy subjects or those with nontuberculous lung diseases.
By contrast, the expression of other adherence-associated early genes, such as IL-8 and IL-1 beta, was not up-regulated in PBMC of tuberculous patients.
Further, M. tuberculosis and its tuberculin, purified protein derivative, induced the degradation of I kappa B-alpha and the expression of I kappa B-alpha mRNA, and purified protein derivative induced the activation of NF-kappa B in monocytes.
Expression of c-fos correlates with IFN-alpha responsiveness in Philadelphia chromosome positive chronic myelogenous leukemia.
This study evaluates -LRB- i -RRB- constitutive levels of oncogene and p53 transcripts in chronic phase CML patients and -LRB- ii -RRB- their modulations subsequent to in vivo therapy with rIFN-alpha 2c.
Peripheral blood mononuclear cells -LRB- pbmc -RRB- and bone marrow cells of 26 patients were examined for c-fos, c-myc, p53 and the hybrid bcr/abl mRNA levels.
Hypoxia enhances induction of endothelial ICAM-1 : role for metabolic acidosis and proteasomes.
Intercellular adhesion molecule 1 -LRB- ICAM-1 -RRB- is an important molecule in promotion of polymorphonuclear neutrophil transendothelial migration during inflammation.
Coincident with many inflammatory diseases is tissue hypoxia.
Human endothelial cells were exposed to hypoxia in the presence or absence of added lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- and examined for expression of functional ICAM-1.
Although hypoxia alone did not induce ICAM-1, the combination of LPS and hypoxia enhanced -LRB- 3 + / - 0.4-fold over normoxia -RRB- ICAM-1 expression.
Combinations of hypoxia and LPS significantly increased lymphocyte binding, and such increases were inhibited by addition of anti-ICAM-1 antibodies or antisense oligonucleotides.
Hypoxic endothelia showed a > 10-fold increase in sensitivity to inhibitors of proteasome activation, and combinations of hypoxia and LPS enhanced proteasome-dependent cytoplasmic-to-nuclear localization of the nuclear transcription factor-kappa B p65 -LRB- Rel A -RRB- subunit.
Such proteasome activation correlated with hypoxia-evoked decreases in both extracellular and intracellular pH..
We conclude from these studies that endothelial hypoxia provides a novel, proteasome-dependent stimulus for ICAM-1 induction.
Modulation of mRNA expression of a novel human myeloid-selective CCAAT/enhancer binding protein gene -LRB- C/EBP epsilon -RRB-.
Our studies showed that levels of C/EBP epsilon mRNA were markedly increased in NB4 cells -LRB- promyelocytic leukemia line -RRB-, because they were induced by 9-cis retinoic acid -LRB- 9-cis RA -RRB- to differentiate towards granulocytes.
Accumulation of C/EBP epsilon mRNA occurred as early as 1 hour after exposure of NB4 cells to 9-cis RA -LRB- 5 x 10 -LRB- -7 -RRB- mol/L -RRB- ; and at 48 hours, levels were increased by 5.1-fold.
Dose-response studies showed that 10 -LRB- -7 -RRB- to 10 -LRB- -6 -RRB- mol/L 9-cis RA -LRB- 12 hours -RRB- resulted in peak levels of C/EBP epsilon mRNA ; but even 10 -LRB- -10 -RRB- mol/L 9-cis RA increased levels of these transcripts.
NB4 cells pulse-exposed -LRB- 30 minutes -RRB- to all-trans retinoic acid -LRB- ATRA -RRB-, washed, and cultured -LRB- 3 days -RRB- with either dimethylsulfoxide -LRB- DMSO -RRB- or hexamethylene bisacetamide -LRB- HMBA -RRB- had a prominent increase in levels of C/EBP epsilon mRNA and an increase in granulocytic differentiation, but exposure to either DMSO or HMBA alone had no effect on base levels of C/EBP epsilon and did not induce differentiation.
Macrophage-differentiation of NB4 reduced levels of C/EBP epsilon mRNA.
Nuclear run-off assays and half-life studies showed that accumulation of C/EBP epsilon mRNA by 9-cis RA was due to enhanced transcription.
Furthermore, this C/EBP epsilon mRNA accumulation did not require synthesis of new protein factors because 9-cis RA induced C/EBP epsilon mRNA accumulation in the absence of new protein synthesis.
ATRA also induced expression of C/EBP epsilon protein in NB4 cells, as shown by Western blotting.
In contrast to the increase of C/EBP epsilon in 9-cis RA-mediated granulocytic differentiation, the DMSO-induced differentiation of HL-60 cells down the granulocytic pathway was associated with an initial reduction of C/EBP epsilon mRNA levels.
In summary, we have discovered that expression of C/EBP epsilon mRNA is markedly enhanced as the NB4 promyelocytes are induced by retinoids to differentiate towards granulocytes.
This induction of C/EBP epsilon mRNA expression is transcriptionally mediated and occurs in the absence of synthesis of additional protein factors.
Regulation of Id3 cell cycle function by Cdk-2-dependent phosphorylation.
The functions of basic helix-loop-helix -LRB- bHLH -RRB- transcription factors in activating differentiation-linked gene expression and in inducing G1 cell cycle arrest are negatively regulated by members of the Id family of HLH proteins.
These bHLH antagonists are induced during a mitogenic signalling response, and they function by sequestering their bHLH targets in inactive heterodimers that are unable to bind to specific gene regulatory -LRB- E box -RRB- sequences.
Recently, cyclin E-Cdk2 - and cyclin A-Cdk2-dependent phosphorylation of a single conserved serine residue -LRB- Ser5 -RRB- in Id2 has been shown to occur during late G1-to-S phase transition of the cell cycle, and this neutralizes the function of Id2 in abrogating E-box-dependent bHLH homo - or heterodimer complex formation in vitro -LRB- E.Hara, M.Hall, and G.Peters, EMBO J. 16:332 -342, 1997 -RRB-.
We now show that an analogous cell-cycle-regulated phosphorylation of Id3 alters the specificity of Id3 for abrogating both E-box-dependent bHLH homo - or heterodimer complex formation in vitro and E-box-dependent reporter gene function in vivo.
Furthermore, compared with wild-type Id3, an Id3 Asp5 mutant -LRB- mimicking phosphorylation -RRB- is unable to promote cell cycle S phase entry in transfected fibroblasts, whereas an Id3 Ala5 mutant -LRB- ablating phosphorylation -RRB- displays an activity significantly greater than that of wild-type Id3 protein.
Cdk2-dependent phosphorylation therefore provides a switch during late G1-to-S phase that both nullifies an early G1 cell cycle regulatory function of Id3 and modulates its target bHLH specificity.
These data also demonstrate that the ability of Id3 to promote cell cycle S phase entry is not simply a function of its ability to modulate bHLH heterodimer-dependent gene expression and establish a biologically important mechanism through which Cdk2 and Id-bHLH functions are integrated in the coordination of cell proliferation and differentiation.
Nuclear accumulation of NFAT4 opposed by the JNK signal transduction pathway.
The nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB- group of transcription factors is retained in the cytoplasm of quiescent cells.
NFAT activation is mediated in part by induced nuclear import.
This process requires calcium-dependent dephosphorylation of NFAT caused by the phosphatase calcineurin.
The c-Jun amino-terminal kinase -LRB- JNK -RRB- phosphorylates NFAT4 on two sites.
Mutational removal of the JNK phosphorylation sites caused constitutive nuclear localization of NFAT4.
In contrast, JNK activation in calcineurin-stimulated cells caused nuclear exclusion of NFAT4.
These findings show that the nuclear accumulation of NFAT4 promoted by calcineurin is opposed by the JNK signal transduction pathway.
Characterization of CD40 signaling determinants regulating nuclear factor-kappa B activation in B lymphocytes.
CD40 signaling to B cells is important for generating an effective humoral immune response.
CD40 ligation leads to B cell activation events such as proliferation, Ig secretion, isotype switching, and up-regulation of cell surface molecules, as well as the generation of memory B cells.
Many of these events are dependent upon the ability of CD40 to activate the transcription factor NF-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB-.
To define the CD40 signaling components upstream of NF-kappa B activation and the functional consequences downstream of NF-kappa B activation, we examined mouse B cell transfectants expressing wild-type or mutant human CD40.
Analysis of CD40 cytoplasmic domain truncation and point mutants defined a 10-amino acid CD40 cytoplasmic signaling determinant required for NF-kappa B activation.
A threonine residue at position 234, previously shown to be important for CD40 association with TNF receptor-associated factor 2 -LRB- TRAF2 -RRB-, TRAF3, and TRAF5, was not required for NF-kappa B activation.
Proteasome-dependent inhibitory kappa B alpha -LRB- I kappa B alpha -RRB- and I kappa B beta degradation occurred downstream of CD40 ligation and preceded CD40-mediated NF-kappa B nuclear translocation.
CD40 - or pervanadate-mediated I kappa B tyrosine phosphorylation was not detected.
NF-kappa B activation correlated with the ability of CD40 to induce Ab secretion and the up-regulation of ICAM-1 and LFA-1.
However, NF-kappa B activation was insufficient for CD40-mediated up-regulation of B7-1, Fas, and CD23.
Extinction of immunoglobulin gene expression in B cells upon fusion with HeLa cells is preceded by rapid nuclear depletion of essential transcription factors and is accompanied by widespread inactivation of genes expressed in a B cell-specific manner.
When immunoglobulin -LRB- Ig -RRB- expressing B cells are fused with non-B cells, Ig expression is rapidly suppressed at the level of transcription, a phenomenon termed extinction.
Here we demonstrate that fusion of HeLa cells with either diploid or tetraploid B cells -LRB- Daudi -RRB- results in widespread extinction of several other B cell-encoded genes that are expressed in a B cell-specific manner.
In contrast, expression of B cell-expressed genes that are not dependent on cell-specific controls is unaffected.
We show that the molecular mechanism -LRB- s -RRB- underlying Ig gene extinction can be explained, at least in part, by a lack of transcription factors that are essential for Ig gene transcription.
By isolating Daudi x HeLa heterokaryons a few hours after fusion, we have studied the initial fate of two B cell-specific transcription factors involved in Ig gene transcription, Oct-2 and NF-kappa B..
This report provides the first demonstration that upon fusion with HeLa cells, the nuclear contents of B cell-expressed transcription factors are depleted within a few hours with kinetics that are as fast or faster than that of Ig gene extinction.
Thus, the extinguishing mechanism is effective very early after fusion.
Transcription factor NF-kappaB regulates inducible Oct-2 gene expression in precursor B lymphocytes.
The POU transcription factors Oct-1 and Oct-2 regulate the activity of octamer-dependent promoters, including those that direct transcription from rearranged immunoglobulin genes.
Unlike Oct-1, which is constitutively expressed in many cell types, Oct-2 expression is restricted primarily to B lymphocytes and can be induced in precursor B cells by stimulation with bacterial lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-.
In the present study, we monitored Oct-2 expression in cells arrested for the activation of NF-kappaB, an LPS-responsive member of the Rel transcription factor family.
Despite stimulation with LPS, disruption of the NF-kappaB signaling pathway in precursor B cells led to the loss of inducible Oct-2 DNA binding activity in vitro and the suppression of Oct-2-directed transcription in vivo.
This biochemical defect correlated with a specific block to Oct-2 gene expression at the level of transcription, whereas the expression of Oct-1 was unaffected.
The finding that Oct-2 is under NF-kappaB control highlights an important cross-talk mechanism involving two distinct transcription factor families that regulate B lymphocyte function.
Paternal expression of WT1 in human fibroblasts and lymphocytes.
The Wilms' tumor suppressor gene -LRB- WT1 -RRB- was previously identified as being imprinted, with frequent maternal expression in human placentae and fetal brains.
We examined the allele-specific expression of WT1 in cultured human fibroblasts from 15 individuals.
Seven of 15 fibroblast lines were heterozygous for polymorphic alleles, and the expression patterns were variable, i.e., equal, unequal or monoallelic paternal expression in three, two and two cases, respectively.
Exclusive paternal expression of WT1 was also shown in non-cultured peripheral lymphocytes from the latter two individuals.
The allele-specific expression profiles of other imprinted genes, IGF2 and H19, on human chromosome 11 were constant and consistent with those in other tissues.
The Epstein-Barr virus oncogene product latent membrane protein 1 engages the tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated death domain protein to mediate B lymphocyte growth transformation and activate NF-kappaB.
The Epstein-Barr virus latent membrane protein 1 -LRB- LMP1 -RRB- is essential for the transformation of B lymphocytes into lymphoblastoid cell lines.
Previous data are consistent with a model that LMP1 is a constitutively activated receptor that transduces signals for transformation through its carboxyl-terminal cytoplasmic tail.
One transformation effector site -LRB- TES1 -RRB-, located within the membrane proximal 45 residues of the cytoplasmic tail, constitutively engages tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors.
Signals from TES1 are sufficient to drive initial proliferation of infected resting B lymphocytes, but most lymphoblastoid cells infected with a virus that does not express the 155 residues beyond TES1 fail to grow as long-term cell lines.
We now find that mutating two tyrosines to an isoleucine at the carboxyl end of the cytoplasmic tail cripples the ability of EBV to cause lymphoblastoid cell outgrowth, thereby marking a second transformation effector site, TES2.
A yeast two-hybrid screen identified TES2 interacting proteins, including the tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated death domain protein -LRB- TRADD -RRB-.
TRADD was the only protein that interacted with wild-type TES2 and not with isoleucine-mutated TES2.
TRADD associated with wild-type LMP1 but not with isoleucine-mutated LMP1 in mammalian cells, and TRADD constitutively associated with LMP1 in EBV-transformed cells.
In transfection assays, TRADD and TES2 synergistically mediated high-level NF-kappaB activation.
Switching gears during T-cell maturation : RANTES and late transcription.
Although much is understood about the induction of genes expressed early -LRB- within 24 h -RRB- after T-cell activation, little is known about the regulation of expression of genes expressed ` late' -LRB- three or more days -RRB- post-stimulation.
LPS tolerance in monocytes/macrophages : three 3' cytosins are required in the DNA binding motif for detection of upregulated NF-kappa B p50 homodimers.
When monocytes are stimulated with LPS -LRB- lipopolysaccharide -RRB- repeatedly then the initially high expression of the TNF -LRB- tumor necrosis factor -RRB- gene is only very low, i.e. the cells are tolerant to LPS.
Tolerant cells still express the CD14 receptor and they can still be activated to mobilize NF-kappa B into nucleus.
Analysis of the binding proteins employing the -605 motif of the human TNF promoter -LRB- GGGGCTGTCCC -RRB- revealed that in tolerant cells of the human monocytic cell line Mono Mac 6 there is a predominance of p50p50 of NF-kappa B..
We now show that a mutant motif that exchanges the terminal 3' C for a G fails to bind the p50 homodimer that is upregulated in LPS toler ant human Mono Mac 6 cells.
The same is true for nuclear extracts taken from the murine P388D1 macrophage cell line when tested with the -516 motif of the murine TNF promoter -LRB- GGGGGCTTTCCC -RRB-.
Here the wild type motif gives efficient binding of p50p50 that again is upregulated in tolerant cells whereas a mutant with a 3' G shows hardly any binding of p50p50.
Conversely, the murine kappa light chain enhancer motif -LRB- GGGGACTTTCCG -RRB- does not efficiently bind the nuclear p50p50 from tolerant murine P388 macrophages.
Binding is, however, readily detected when the 3' G is replaced by a C..
These data show that the detection of upregulated p50 homodimers in LPS tolerant cells is dependent on subtle differences in the sequence of the DNA binding motif.
NF-kappa B/Rel family members regulating the ICAM-1 promoter in monocytic THP-1 cells.
A kappa B-site was identified in the promoter of the intercellular adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- ICAM-1 -RRB- gene, which is involved in regulation of ICAM-1 expression by tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- and glucocorticoids.
We now report on the transcription factors which bind and transactivate this enhancer sequence.
In addition, both RelA and c-Rel, but not NF-kappa B1, were shown to transactivate an ICAM-1 kappa B-reporter construct.
In monocytic THP-1 cells TNF-alpha induced two nuclear complexes which in vitro bound to the ICAM-1 kappa B site.
Using antibodies in an electrophoretic mobility supershift assay, one of these complexes was shown to contain NF-kappa B1 and RelA, and to bind with higher affinity to the consensus kappa B site in the HIV long terminal repeat.
The second complex contained RelA, and exhibited higher affinity towards the ICAM-1 kappa B than to the HIV kappa B site.
The glucocorticoid receptor was shown to repress activity of both the RelA homodimer and the NF-kappa B1/RelA heterodimer.
Control of NF-kappa B activity by the I kappa B beta inhibitor.
The transcription factor NF-kappa B is maintained in an inactive cytoplasmic state by I kappa B inhibitors.
In mammalian cells, I kappa B alpha and I kappa B beta proteins have been purified and shown to be the inhibitors of NF-kappa B through their association with the p65 or c-Rel subunits.
In addition, we have isolated a third NF-kappa B inhibitor, I kappa B epsilon -LRB- 1 -RRB-.
Upon treatment with a large variety of inducers, I kappa B alpha, I kappa B beta are proteolytically degraded, resulting in NF-kappa B translocation into the nucleus.
Here we show that in E29 .1 T cell hybridoma I kappa B alpha and I kappa B beta are equally associated with p65 and that I kappa B beta is degraded in response to TNF alpha in contrast to what has been originally published.
Regulation of NF-kappa B activity by I kappa B alpha and I kappa B beta stability.
Transcription factor NF-kappa B must be released from cytoplasmic inhibitory molecules -LRB- I kappa Bs -RRB- in order to move to the nucleus and to activate its target genes.
Little is known about the mechanisms regulating the maintenance of constitutive nuclear NF-kappa B in some cell-types and of sustained nuclear NF-kappa B activity after stimulation.
Increased turnover has been implicated in the regulation of constitutive NF-kappa B activity in mature B cells.
We therefore compared the turnover of I kappa B alpha and I kappa B beta in mature B cells and HeLa cells.
Both proteins display a high turnover in B cells although I kappa B beta is considerably more stable than I kappa B alpha.
The half-life of both inhibitors is increased in HeLa cells.
In contrast, all other NF-kappa B/I kappa B molecules tested are relatively stable in both cell-types.
Furthermore, we investigated the processes involved in persistent activation of NF-kappa B..
TNF-alpha signaling leads to a rapid depletion of cellular I kappa B beta pools.
I kappa B alpha is efficiently resynthesized whereas I kappa B beta levels stay low for a prolonged time.
NF-kappa B binding activity can be detected for several hours after stimulation.
We found that removal of the TNF-alpha containing medium causes a rapid decrease in nuclear NF-kappa B..
A phosphoform of newly synthesized I kappa B alpha is visible when degradation by the proteasome is inhibited and new I kappa B alpha displays the same properties regarding phosphorylation and degradation in response to a second inducer.
There is no significant difference in the turnover of pre - and post-inductive I kappa B alpha.
Cellular and molecular mechanisms of IL-5 synthesis in atopic diseases : a study with allergen-specific human helper T cells.
BACKGROUND : Cytokines produced by helper T cells are intimately involved in chronic allergic diseases associated with eosinophilic inflammation.
OBJECTIVE : We investigated the production of IL-5, a potent growth factor and chemotactic factor for eosinophils, by CD4 + T lymphocytes in patients with asthma.
METHODS : Allergen-specific T cell clones and T cell hybridomas were established from the peripheral blood lymphocytes of patients with asthma, and the responses to various stimuli were determined.
RESULTS : After nonspecific stimulation, IL-5 production by CD4 + T cells from both atopic and nonatopic subjects with asthma was significantly enhanced compared with that by cells from healthy controls.
A thiol antioxidant regulates IgE isotype switching by inhibiting activation of nuclear factor-kappaB.
Accordingly, we studied the role of NF-kappaB in germline Cepsilon transcription by using two human Burkitt 's lymphoma B cell lines, DND39 and DG75.
In both cell lines, n-acetyl-L-cysteine -LRB- NAC -RRB-, a potent thiol antioxidant, inhibited the triggering of the nuclear expression of NF-kappaB by IL-4 and by anti-CD40 monoclonal antibody.
Although IL-4 activated signal transducers and activators of transcription -LRB- STAT -RRB- 6 in addition to NF-kappaB, NAC treatment or the transfection of decoy oligodeoxynucleotides for NF-kappaB or STAT6 only partly blocked IL-4-induced germline Cepsilon transcription.
However, these two decoy oligodeoxynucleotides together almost completely abrogated IL-4-induced germline Cepsilon transcription.
The effect of NAC was also examined on deletional switch recombination underlying the isotype switch to IgE.
NAC inhibited the generation of Smu/Sepsilon switch fragments in normal human B cells costimulated with IL-4 and anti-CD40 monoclonal antibody.
It also abolished IL-4-induced upregulation of CD40 but promoted upregulation of CD23.
Replication of human immunodeficiency virus-1 in primary human T cells is dependent on the autocrine secretion of tumor necrosis factor through the control of nuclear factor-kappa B activation.
Tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- - alpha controls T-cell activation and is a major inducer of human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- -1 replication in chronically infected cells.
Therefore, we have investigated its role in primary cultures of HIV-infected human T lymphocytes by using neutralizing anti-TNF-alpha antibodies or TNF-alpha.
Primary resting T lymphocytes produced TNF-alpha and supported HIV replication after T-cell receptor activation.
Addition of neutralizing anti-TNF-alpha antibodies drastically reduced p24 antigen release and prevented CD4 + cell depletion associated with infection.
Anti-TNF-alpha also prevented nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- activation, and a good correlation between this inhibition and inhibition of HIV replication was observed.
Moreover, supplementing the cultures with high doses of IL-2 reverted anti-TNF-alpha inhibition of cell proliferation but did not affect the inhibition of HIV p24 antigen release or NF-kappa B activation in the same cultures.
Moreover, anti-TNF-alpha inhibited HIV-1 long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- - driven transcription of a reporter gene in primary T cells in response to activation, either in the presence or the absence of HIV-1 Tat.
Our results support an important role for autocrine TNF-alpha secretion in controlling HIV replication in primary T cells because of its ability to maintain NF-kappa B elevated in the nucleus of T cells.
Constitutive expression c-fos, c-jun, and NF kappa B mRNA is in nucleated fetal blood cells and up-regulation of c-fos and c-jun with anti-CD3 stimulation.
Fetal and neonatal lymphocytes are relatively resistant to activation and cytokine production when stimulated either via their T-cell antigen receptors or lectins.
We used reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction to examine both fetal and term neonatal cord bloods for mRNA expression of three transcription factors implicated in T-cell activation : c-jun, c-fos, and NF kappa B -LRB- p50 subunit -RRB-.
We demonstrate that mRNAs for all three of these regulatory factors are expressed in fetal blood cells by the 27th week of gestation and in term cord bloods.
Activation of term infant cord blood mononuclear cells with anti-CD3 monoclonal antibodies resulted in up-regulation of both c-jun and c-fos mRNAs within 15 min of stimulation.
However, secretion of IL-2 by anti-CD3-stimulated cord blood mononuclear cells was still blunted compared with control cells from adults.
We conclude that fetal nucleated blood cells constitutively express important genes for cytokine regulation and are able to increase intracellular accumulation of the mRNAs for these factors in response to anti-CD3 stimulation.
Thus, qualitative differences in the capacity to regulate these factors could not be shown in fetal blood cells.
Quantitative experiments comparing binding of these transcription factors to the IL-2 promoter are currently under investigation.
Estrogen receptor diminishes DNA-binding activities of chicken GATA-1 and CACCC-binding proteins.
The estrogen receptor -LRB- ER -RRB- repressed erythroid differentiation and erythroid-specific gene expression.
In this study, we investigated the effect of ER alpha -LRB- referred to throughout as ER -RRB- on DNA-binding activities of transcription factors involved in regulating the expression of erythroid-specific genes, and, in particular, the histone H5 gene.
Using electrophoretic mobility shift assays, we found that in the presence of rabbit reticulocyte lysate, human ER reduced the binding activities of chicken immature erythrocyte nuclear extracted proteins to GATA and CACCC sites in the H5 promoter and enhancer.
In contrast, the binding activities of NF1 and Sp1 were not affected by ER.
Binding of ER to an estrogen response element was enhanced by addition of rabbit reticulocyte lysate.
This lysate was also necessary for ER to diminish the DNA-binding activity of GATA-1.
Both GATA-1 and CACCC-binding proteins are critical for the developmentally regulated expression of erythroid-specific genes.
Cyclosporin A inhibits early mRNA expression of G0/G1 switch gene 2 -LRB- G0S2 -RRB- in cultured human blood mononuclear cells.
Among these target genes is the gene encoding interleukin-2 -LRB- IL2 -RRB-, a cytokine facilitating progression through the G1 phase of the cell cycle.
Using a sensitive, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction -LRB- RT-PCR -RRB- assay, G0S2 mRNA levels were assayed in cultured blood mononuclear cells.
Freshly isolated cells contain high levels of G0S2 mRNA which rapidly decline.
This `` spontaneous stimulation '' is also noted with some other G0S genes and has been attributed to some aspect of the isolation procedure.
In cells that have been preincubated to lower mRNA levels, there is a transient increase in G0S2 mRNA, peaking between 1-2 h, in response to Concanavalin-A -LRB- ConA -RRB-, or to the combination of phorbol ester -LRB- TPA -RRB-, and the calcium ionophore, ionomycin.
Both these responses are inhibited by CsA.
Competent transcription initiation by RNA polymerase II in cell-free extracts from xeroderma pigmentosum groups B and D in an optimized RNA transcription assay.
The human autosomal recessive disease, xeroderma pigmentosum -LRB- XP -RRB-, can result from mutations in any one of seven genes, designated XPA through XPG.
Of these, the XPB and XPD genes encode proteins that are subunits of a general transcription factor, TFIIH, involved in both nucleotide excision repair -LRB- NER -RRB- and initiation of mRNA transcription by RNA polymerase II.
In humans, mutation of the XPB or XPD gene impairs NER, resulting in hyper-sensitivity to sunlight and greatly increased skin tumor formation.
However, no transcription deficiency has been demonstrated in either XP-B or XP-D.
We have employed an optimized cell-free RNA transcription assay to analyze transcription activity of XP-B and XP-D.
Although the growth rate was normal, the XP-B and XP-D cells contained reduced amounts of TFIIH.
Extracts prepared from XP-B and XP-D lymphoblastoid cells exhibited similar transcription activity from the adenovirus major late promoter when compared to that in extracts from normal cells.
Thus, we conclude that the XP-B and XP-D lymphoblastoid cells do not have impaired RNA transcription activity.
Agonistic activity of a CD40-specific single-chain Fv constructed from the variable regions of mAb G28-5.
A single-chain Fv -LRB- sFv -RRB- was expressed from the variable regions of the CD40-specific mAb G28-5.
The molecule bound CD40 with a high affinity -LRB- 2.2 nM -RRB- and was a monomer in solution.
Surprisingly, G28-5 sFv was a potent CD40 agonist that rapidly crosslinked CD40 on the cell surface but did not crosslink CD40-Ig in solution.
G28-5 sFv was a more potent agonist than G28-5 IgG and was able to stimulate CD40 responses by B cells and monocytes.
G28-5 IgG partially blocked, whereas G28-5 sFv augmented CD40 responses during stimulation with natural ligand -LRB- gp39-CD8 fusion protein -RRB-.
Cyclosporin A inhibits monocyte tissue factor activation in cardiac transplant recipients.
BACKGROUND : Fibrin deposition and thrombosis have been implicated in both allograft rejection and vasculopathy after cardiac transplantation.
METHODS AND RESULTS : We measured levels of TF activity in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and highly purified monocytes/macrophages from 10 consecutive cardiac transplant recipients and 10 healthy control subjects.
TF activity generated by both unstimulated and endotoxin-stimulated cells was significantly higher in transplant recipients than in control subjects -LRB- P < .05 -RRB-.
Increased monocyte TF expression in transplant recipients was shown to be adversely affected by treatment with CsA : TF induction was markedly reduced by CsA serum concentrations reaching peak CsA drug levels.
Inhibition of TF induction in the presence of high CsA blood concentrations was also observed when stimulation of cells was performed with interferon-gamma or interleukin-1beta.
As shown by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and electrophoretic mobility shift assay, respectively, treatment with CsA leads to decreased TF mRNA expression and reduced activation of the NF-kappaB transcription factor, which is known to contribute to the induction of the TF promotor in human monocytes.
CONCLUSIONS : This study demonstrates that TF activation, occurring in mononuclear cells of cardiac transplant recipients, is inhibited by treatment with CsA.
c-Rel and p65 subunits bind to an upstream NF-kappaB site in human granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor promoter involved in phorbol ester response in 5637 cells.
To further clarify the complex transcriptional regulation of the human GM-CSF gene, which was extensively investigated in activated T cells, we have studied the role of an upstream NF-kappaB like site in the 5637 non-lymphoid cell line, which derives from a bladder carcinoma and constitutively produces GM-CSF.
This sequence, named the A element, has an active role on GM-CSF transcription and is responsive to the tumor promoter PMA in transient transfection experiments.
We describe here a heterodimeric binding complex of NF-kappaB subunits -LRB- c-Rel and p65 -RRB- which is identical to the one obtained using the HIV-LTR-kappaB site as recognition sequence and different from the one -LRB- c-Rel and p50 -RRB- observed with nuclear extracts from Mo T-lymphoid HTLV-II infected cells.
Molecular mechanisms of anoxia/reoxygenation-induced neutrophil adherence to cultured endothelial cells.
The objectives of this study were to -LRB- 1 -RRB- determine the time course of neutrophil adhesion to monolayers of human umbilical vein endothelial cells -LRB- HUVECs -RRB- that were exposed to 60 minutes of anoxia followed by 30 to 600 minutes of reoxygenation and -LRB- 2 -RRB- define the mechanisms responsible for both the early -LRB- minutes -RRB- and late -LRB- hours -RRB- hyperadhesivity of postanoxic HUVECs to human neutrophils.
The results clearly demonstrate that anoxia/reoxygenation -LRB- A/R -RRB- leads to a biphasic increase in neutrophil adhesion to HUVECs, with peak responses occurring at 30 minutes -LRB- phase 1 -RRB- and 240 minutes -LRB- phase 2 -RRB- after reoxygenation.
In comparison, platelet activating factor -LRB- PAF -RRB- contributed to both phases of neutrophil adhesion.
Anti-intercellular adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- ICAM-1 -RRB- and anti-P-selectin antibodies -LRB- monoclonal antibodies -LSB- mAbs -RSB- -RRB- attenuated phase-1 neutrophil adhesion, consistent with roles for constitutively expressed ICAM-1 and enhanced surface expression of preformed P-selectin.
Surface expression of ICAM-1, P-selectin, and E-selectin on HUVECs correlated with the phase-1 and -2 neutrophil adhesion responses.
IL-2 and IL-7 induce heterodimerization of STAT5 isoforms in human peripheral blood T lymphoblasts.
Despite differences in T cell responses induced by interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -2 and IL-7, both cytokines modulate T cell functions by activation of signal transducers and activators of transcription -LRB- STAT -RRB- proteins.
We examined the contribution of the two isoforms of STAT5, STAT5A and STAT5B, to IL-2 - and IL-7-induced activation of human peripheral blood T lymphoblasts.
Both cytokines induced assembly of STAT5A and STAT5B containing complexes capable of binding to the interferon-gamma activation sequence -LRB- GAS -RRB-, and these complexes rapidly translocated -LRB- within 1 min -RRB- into the nucleus of IL-2 - or IL-7-treated cells.
The kinetics of this translocation were delayed in IL-7-treated as compared to IL-2-treated cells.
IL-2 and IL-7 were equivalent in their ability to induce tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT5A and STAT5B and to facilitate binding of these STATs to an immobilized GAS element.
Both IL-2 and IL-7 induced substantial amounts of STAT5A/STAT5B heterodimerization.
Moreover, we observed constitutive association of STAT3 with each STAT5 isomer.
Transactivation by CIITA, the type II bare lymphocyte syndrome-associated factor, requires participation of multiple regions of the TATA box binding protein.
CIITA is a positive regulator of class II major histocompatibility complex gene transcription that has been found to be defective in one of the five complementation groups of class II major histocompatibility complex-negative cell lines.
Its N-terminal region is capable of activating transcription from a reporter gene when fused to a DNA binding domain.
We have investigated the mechanism of transactivation mediated by the CIITA activation domain by studying its role in the process of transcription initiation and elongation.
Specifically the altered specificity TBP -LRB- TATA box binding protein -RRB- assay has been used to analyze the response of the CIITA activation domain to mutations in TBP known to disrupt its interaction with its associated general factors.
Transactivation by CIITA was extremely sensitive to a mutation in TBP that in yeast is known to abolish VP16-mediated transcription but leaves basal transcription unaffected.
A TBP mutant defective in interaction with TBP-associated factor TAFII250 also failed to mediate transactivation through the CIITA activation domain.
Certain interactions between TBP and general factors that are specifically required for acidic activation domains were also required for CIITA-mediated transactivation to reach its full potential.
Finally, like VP16, CIITA was able to stimulate elongation of transcription.
Overall the mechanism of transactivation by the human B-cell-specific CIITA is very similar to that mediated by the herpes virus transactivator VP16 in the ways that have been tested.
Specific complex formation between the type II bare lymphocyte syndrome-associated transactivators CIITA and RFX5.
Two of the genes defective in the five complementation groups identified in the class II-negative bare lymphocyte syndrome or corresponding laboratory mutants have been cloned.
One gene encodes a protein, RFX5, that is a member of the RFX family of DNA binding proteins.
The other, CIITA, encodes a large protein with a defined acidic transcriptional activation domain ; this protein does not interact with DNA.
Expression plasmids encoding regions of RFX5 fused to the GAL4 DNA binding domain activated transcription from a reporter construct containing GAL4 sites in a cotransfection assay in the Raji human B cell line.
However, these plasmids produced transcriptional activity in HeLa cells only in conjunction with interferon gamma stimulation, a condition in which expression of both CIITA and class II major histocompatibility complex surface proteins are induced.
Furthermore, these plasmids were not active in RJ2 .2.5, an in vitro mutagenized derivative of Raji in which both copies of CIITA are defective.
Transcriptional activation by the RFX5 fusion protein could be restored in RJ2 .2.5 by cotransfection with a CIITA expression plasmid.
Finally, a direct interaction between RFX5 and CIITA was detected with the yeast two-hybrid and far-Western blot assays.
Thus, RFX5 can activate transcription only in cooperation with CIITA.
RFX5 and CIITA associate to form a complex capable of activating transcription from class II major histocompatibility complex promoters.
In this complex, promoter specificity is determined by the DNA binding domain of RFX5 and the general transcription apparatus is recruited by the acidic activation domain of CIITA.
Reactive oxygen species and antioxidants in inflammatory diseases.
This paper aims to review the role of free radical-induced tissue damage and antioxidant defence mechanisms in inflammatory diseases that involve pathogenic processes similar to the periodontal diseases.
There is a clearly defined and substantial role for free radicals or reactive oxygen species -LRB- ROS -RRB- in periodontitis, but little research has been performed in this area.
This paper reviews the considerable data available relating ROS activity and antioxidant defence to inflammatory diseases and attempts to draw parallels with periodontitis, in an effort to stimulate more periodontal research in this important area.
Emphasis is placed on cytokines that have been studied in periodontitis, principally TNF-alpha, IL-1, IL-6, IL-8 and beta-interferon.
Transcriptional activity and constitutive nuclear localization of the ETS protein Elf-1.
Elf-1 is a lymphoid-specific transcription factor that belongs to the ETS protein family.
It can bind to DNA target sequences within a variety of cytokine genes.
We demonstrate that Elf-1 is constitutively localized in the nucleus which is dependent on the presence of amino acids 86-265.
Analysis of Gal4-Elf-1 fusion proteins revealed that the N-terminal 86 amino acids of Elf-1 contain a transcriptional activation domain, the activity of which is attenuated by an internal repression domain.
Furthermore, Elf-1 interacts specifically with the E74 target sequence and can stimulate transcription driven by the E74 site independent of mitogenic signaling.
Overexpression of HSF2-beta inhibits hemin-induced heat shock gene expression and erythroid differentiation in K562 cells.
Acquisition of heat shock factor 2 -LRB- HSF2 -RRB- DNA binding activity is accompanied by induced transcription of heat shock genes in hemin-treated K562 cells undergoing erythroid differentiation.
Previous studies revealed that HSF2 consists of two alternatively spliced isoforms, HSF2-alpha and HSF2-beta, whose relative abundance is developmentally regulated and varies between different tissues.
We show that in parental K562 cells, the HSF2-alpha isoform is predominantly expressed and HSF2 can be activated upon hemin treatment.
In contrast, when HSF2-beta is expressed at levels exceeding those of endogenous HSF2-alpha, the hemin-induced DNA binding activity and transcription of heat shock genes are repressed, whereas overexpression of HSF2-alpha results in an enhanced hemin response.
Furthermore, the hemin-induced accumulation of globin, known as a marker of erythroid differentiation, is decreased in cells overexpressing HSF2-beta.
Glucocorticoid-mediated repression of cytokine gene transcription in human arteritis-SCID chimeras.
Giant cell arteritis -LRB- GCA -RRB- is a vasculitic syndrome that preferentially affects medium and large-sized arteries.
Glucocorticoid therapy resolves clinical symptoms within hours to days, but therapy has to be continued over several years to prevent disease relapses.
GCA is self-sustained in temporal arteries engrafted into SCID mice, providing a model in which the mechanisms of action and limitations of glucocorticoid therapy can be examined in vivo.
Administration of dexamethasone to temporal artery-SCID chimeras for 1 wk induced a partial suppression of T cell and macrophage function as indicated by the reduced tissue concentrations of IL-2, IL-1beta, and IL-6 mRNA, and by the diminished expression of inducible NO synthase.
In contrast, synthesis of IFN-gamma mRNA was only slightly decreased, and expression of TGF-beta1 was unaffected.
These findings correlated with activation of the IkappaBalpha gene and blockade of the nuclear translocation of NFkappaB in the xenotransplanted tissue.
Chronic steroid therapy was able to deplete the T cell products IL-2 and IFN-gamma, whereas the activation of tissue-infiltrating macrophages was only partially affected.
IL-1beta transcription was abrogated ; in contrast, TGF-beta1 mRNA synthesis was steroid resistant.
Histamine modulates the expression of c-fos through cyclic AMP production via the H2 receptor in the human promonocytic cell line U937.
We examined the effects of histamine and its agonists on the expression of the c-fos and c-myc proto-oncogenes at the transcriptional and translational levels in the human promonocytic U937 cell line.
Histamine transiently increased cAMP and c-fos expression through H2 receptors.
Dibutyryl cAMP also increased c-fos mRNA and protein, and levels remained elevated even after 12 hr of treatment.
Furthermore, studies carried out using H7, a protein kinase A/protein kinase C inhibitor, blocked c-fos induction, whereas no effect was observed with bisindolylmaleimide, a specific protein kinase C inhibitor.
No modification of c-myc expression could be detected on treatment with histamine or its analogues.
Nevertheless, dibutyryl cAMP induced a down-regulation of the levels of this proto-oncogene.
In addition, dibutyryl cAMP inhibited cell growth in a dose-dependent manner, whereas histamine failed to affect proliferation and differentiation of U937 cells.
Cells pretreated with dimaprit showed a decrease in the cAMP response to subsequent addition of H2 agonists, whereas the cAMP response to prostaglandin E2 remained unaltered.
This homologous mechanism of H2 receptor desensitization was time dependent.
Human cytomegalovirus induces interleukin-8 production by a human monocytic cell line, THP-1, through acting concurrently on AP-1 - and NF-kappaB-binding sites of the interleukin-8 gene.
Cytomegalovirus -LRB- CMV -RRB- infection induced interleukin-8 -LRB- IL-8 -RRB- gene transcription in a human monocytic cell line, THP-1 cells, leading to IL-8 secretion.
The functional analysis of the IL-8 gene revealed that both AP-1 - and NF-kappaB factor-binding elements were involved in conferring the responsiveness to CMV.
Moreover, electrophoretic mobility shift assays demonstrated that CMV induced the formation of NF-kappaB and AP-1 complexes.
Characterization of peripheral blood T-lymphocytes transduced with HTLV-I Tax mutants with different trans-activating phenotypes.
Tax1, a transcriptional trans-activator of the Human T-cell leukemia virus type I -LRB- HTLV-I -RRB-, induces the expression of many cellular genes through interaction with at least three distinct cellular transcription factors ; CREB/ATF, NF-kappaB, and SRF.
This Tax1-induced activation of cellular genes is considered to be a critical event in T-cell transformation by HTLV-I.
To elucidate the role of each Tax1-inducible transcriptional pathway in T-cell transformation, we introduced Tax1 mutants with different trans-activating phenotypes into peripheral blood lymphocytes -LRB- PBL -RRB- by retroviral vectors.
Analysis of these PBLs revealed that activation of the NF-kappaB pathway is sufficient to promote the growth response to IL-2.
However, for the clonal expansion of CD4 + T-cells, which is a characteristic result of HTLV-I infection, activation of the CREB/ATF and SRF pathways is also required.
Involvement of the N-terminal region of the human mineralocorticoid receptor hormone-binding domain in agonist and antagonist binding as revealed by a new monoclonal antibody.
To gain a better understanding of the mechanism of binding to the human mineralocorticoid receptor -LRB- hMR -RRB-, we developed a new monoclonal antibody -LRB- mAb -RRB- raised against the hormone-binding domain -LRB- HBD -RRB-.
For this purpose, mice were immunized with a fusion protein including the sequence Thr729-Lys984 of hMR.
After ELISA screening, mAb 18C7 was selected for its specificity towards the HBD.
This antibody recognized both the denatured and native MR forms, as well as the hetero-oligomeric MR form and the transformed MR state.
By using several HBD subfragments, the mAb 18C7 epitope was located in the N-terminal region of the HBD from Thr729 to Leu765.
We then studied the effect of the antibody on aldosterone and progesterone binding to the hMR.
When 18C7 was incubated with liganded MR, it was able to partly displace -LRB- 20 % -RRB- the hormone from its binding site.
When 18C7 was incubated with MR before aldosterone or progesterone, the antibody inhibited 75-80 % of the binding.
The effect of 18C7 on the binding was similar with both hormones.
A sucrose gradient analysis indicated the simultaneous presence of two kinds of receptor complexes : the steroid-MR complex and the antibody-MR complex.
After its associated proteins, especially the heat-shock protein hsp90, had been cross-linked with the hMR by dimethylpimelimidate, 18C7 was still able to react with the receptor.
The lack of steroid binding of HBD mutants with the Thr729-Leu765 sequence deleted -LSB- Jalaguier, Mesnier, Leger and Auzou -LRB- 1996 -RRB- J.Steroid Biochem.Mol.Biol .57, 43-50 -RSB- supports this hypothesis.
Because of the similar behaviours of aldosterone and progesterone, we conclude that the N-terminal Thr729-Leu765 region of the HBD is similarly involved in the binding of both hormones.
Abnormal T lymphocyte development induced by targeted overexpression of IkappaB alpha.
Transgenic mice with a lymphocyte-specific defect in NF-kappaB activation were produced by targeted expression of human IkappaB alpha.
The thymic cellularity of these mice was significantly decreased.
The proportion of mature, TCRhigh thymocytes of the alphabeta lineage was reduced, and the remaining TCRhigh population contained an unusually high proportion of double-positive cells.
This defect in maturation resulted in a transgene dose-dependent reduction in peripheral T lymphocytes, with the CD8 lineage being more severely affected.
These data provide direct evidence for the involvement of NF-kappaB/Rel family proteins in late stages of T lymphocyte development, coincident with positive and negative selection.
Sequential development of structural and functional alterations in T cells from tumor-bearing mice.
The TCR alpha beta or - gamma delta chains bind the peptide ligand, whereas the associated CD3 delta epsilon gamma and TCR zeta subunits couple the TCR to intracellular signal transduction components.
Recently, several groups have described marked alterations in signal transduction elements in T cells from cancer patients or in mice bearing tumor for a few weeks -LRB- > 26 days -RRB-.
The aim of this study was to explore the kinetics of the development of alterations in signal transduction molecules -LRB- TCR zeta chain, NF kappaB family proteins, and tyrosine kinase p56 -LRB- lck -RRB- -RRB- in mice bearing MC38 colon adenocarcinoma.
The results demonstrate that alterations in NF kappaB family proteins, specifically the failure of p65 translocation to the nucleus, occur earlier and more frequently than the decrease in zeta-chain.
These defects are paralleled by an impaired ability to produce Th1 cytokines -LRB- IL-2 and IFN-gamma -RRB-.
These initial changes are followed by the eventual loss of TCR zeta chain and p56 -LRB- lck -RRB- and a marked decrease in cytotoxic function.
An increased rate of lysosomal degradation is one of the mechanisms responsible for the loss of zeta-chain.
An isotype-specific activator of major histocompatibility complex -LRB- MHC -RRB- class II genes that is independent of class II transactivator.
Patients with one type of major histocompatibility complex class II combined immunodeficiency have mutations in a gene termed class II transactivator -LRB- CIITA -RRB-, which coordinately controls the transcription of the three major human class II genes, HLA-DR, - DQ, and - DP.
However, the experimentally derived B-lymphoblastoid cell line, clone 13, expresses high levels of HLADQ in the absence of HLA-DR and HLA-DP, despite its mapping by complementation analysis to this group.
We report here that ectopic expression of CIITA cDNAs derived by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction from clone 13 do not restore expression of HLA-DQ in another CIITA-deficient cell line, RJ2 .2.5.
In addition, no CIITA protein is detectable in clone 13 nuclear extracts.
In contrast, somatic cell fusion between clone 13 and RJ2 .2.5 restored expression of the HLA-DQ haplotype encoded by the RJ2 .2.5 DQB gene.
Taken together, these data demonstrate the existence of an HLA-DQ isotype-specific trans-acting factor, which functions independently of CIITA.
Induction of cytokine expression in leukocytes by binding of thrombin-stimulated platelets.
BACKGROUND : Activated platelets tether and activate myeloid leukocytes.
METHODS AND RESULTS : We obtained peripheral venous blood samples in 20 patients with AMI before and daily for 5 days after direct percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty -LRB- PTCA -RRB- and in 20 patients undergoing elective PTCA.
Throughout the study period, CD41 immunofluorescence of leukocytes -LRB- flow cytometry -RRB- revealed increased leukocyte-platelet adhesion in patients with AMI compared with control patients -LRB- mean + / - SE of fluorescence -LSB- channels -RSB- before PTCA : 77 + / - 16 versus 35 + / - 9 ; P = .003 -RRB-.
In vitro, thrombin-stimulated fixed platelets bound to neutrophils and monocytes.
Within 2 hours, this resulted in increased mRNA for interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- ,1 beta, IL-8, and monocyte chemoattractant protein -LRB- MCP -RRB- -1 in unfractionated leukocytes.
After 4 hours, IL-1 beta and IL-8 concentration of the cell-free supernatant had increased by 268 + / - 36 % and 210 + / - 7 %, respectively, and cellular MCP-1 content had increased by 170 + / - 8 %.
Addition of activated platelets to adherent monocytes had a similar effect and was associated with nuclear factor-kappa B activation.
Inhibition of binding by anti-P selectin antibodies reduced the effect of activated platelets on cytokine production.
CONCLUSIONS : In patients with AMI, leukocyte-platelet adhesion is increased.
Binding of activated platelets induces IL-1 beta, IL-8, and MCP-1 in leukocytes.
The class II trans-activator CIITA interacts with the TBP-associated factor TAFII32.
The class II trans - activator -LRB- CIITA -RRB- is the main transcriptional co-activator for the expression of MHC class II proteins.
Its N-terminal 125 amino acids function as an independent transcriptional activation domain.
Analyses of the primary amino acid sequence of the activation domain predict the presence of three alpha-helices, each with a high proportion of acidic residues.
Using site-directed mutagenesis, we found that two of these predicted alpha-helices are required for full transcriptional activation by CIITA.
Moreover, a CIITA protein in which both functional alpha-helices have been deleted displays a dominant negative phenotype.
This activation domain of CIITA interacts with the 32 kDa subunit of the general transcription complex TFIID, TAFII32.
Decreased transcriptional activation by N-terminal deletions of CIITA is correlated directly with their reduced binding to TAFII32.
We conclude that interactions between TAFII32 and CIITA are responsible for activation of class II genes.
Tap : a novel cellular protein that interacts with tip of herpesvirus saimiri and induces lymphocyte aggregation.
Tip of herpesvirus saimiri associates with Lck and down-regulates Lck-mediated activation.
We identified a novel cellular Tip-associated protein -LRB- Tap -RRB- by a yeast two-hybrid screen.
Tap associated with Tip following transient expression in COS-1 cells and stable expression in human Jurkat-T cells.
Expression of Tip and Tap in Jurkat-T cells induced dramatic cell aggregation.
Furthermore, NF-kappaB transcriptional factor of aggregated cells had approximately 40-fold higher activity than that of parental cells.
S-allyl cysteine inhibits activation of nuclear factor kappa B in human T cells.
Reactive oxygen species are involved in signal transduction pathways leading to nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- activation which has been implicated in the regulation of gene transcription.
We recently reported that a garlic compound, S-allyl cysteine -LRB- SAC -RRB-, protects bovine pulmonary artery endothelial cells from oxidant injury induced by hydrogen peroxide -LRB- H2O2 -RRB-.
In this study we determined the effects of SAC on NF-kappa B activation in human T lymphocytes -LRB- Jurkat cells -RRB- induced by tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF - alpha -RRB- and H2O2.
Activated NF-kappa B in nuclear extracts was measured by an electrophoretic mobility shift assay using 32P-labeled probe.
SAC consistently exhibited a dose-dependent inhibition of NF-kappa B activation induced by both TNF-alpha and H2O2.
Supershift with specific antibodies to NF-kappa B subunits confirmed that the inducible retarded bands observed in the EMSA and p65-p50 heterodimer of the NF-kappa B/Rel protein.
Anti-Ehrlichia chaffeensis antibody complexed with E. chaffeensis induces potent proinflammatory cytokine mRNA expression in human monocytes through sustained reduction of IkappaB-alpha and activation of NF-kappaB.
Ehrlichia chaffeensis is an obligatory intracellular bacterium that infects monocytes and macrophages and is the etiologic agent of human ehrlichiosis in the United States.
Our previous studies showed that the exposure of human monocytes to E. chaffeensis induces the expression of interleukin-1beta -LRB- IL-1beta -RRB-, IL-8, and IL-10 genes in vitro but not the expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- and IL-6 mRNAs.
In this study, the effect of anti-E. chaffeensis antibody complexed with E. chaffeensis on the expression of major proinflammatory cytokines in human monocytes was examined.
Human monocytic cell line THP-1 was treated with E. chaffeensis which had been preincubated with human anti-E. chaffeensis serum for 2 h, and the levels of cytokine mRNAs were evaluated by competitive reverse transcription-PCR.
Anti-E. chaffeensis antibody complexed with E. chaffeensis significantly enhanced mRNA expression of IL-1beta in THP-1 cells.
The expression of TNF-alpha and IL-6 mRNAs was also induced.
The levels of secreted IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and IL-6 during 24 h of stimulation were comparable to those induced by Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide at 1 microg/ml.
Furthermore, prolonged degradation of IkappaB-alpha and activation of NF-kappaB were demonstrated in THP-1 cells exposed to anti-E. chaffeensis serum and E. chaffeensis.
Activation of nuclear factor-kappa B by beta-amyloid peptides and interferon-gamma in murine microglia.
In an effort to further elucidate the biological effects of A beta towards microglia, we investigated the ability of A beta peptides to activate nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappa B in the N9 murine microglial cell line.
Co-stimulation of microglia with suboptimal concentrations of A beta -LRB- 25-35 -RRB- and 100 U/ml IFN gamma resulted in the detection of a specific NF-kappa B DNA-binding activity in nuclear extracts, as determined in gel mobility shift assays.
This response required at least 120 min to be evident and supershift experiments revealed that the NF-kappa B complex contains both RelA and p50.
Accordingly, immunoblot experiments showed that amongst NF-kappa B/Rel proteins, RelA and p50 are mobilized to the nucleus following microglial cell stimulation with A beta -LRB- 25-35 -RRB- plus IFN gamma.
Higher concentrations of A beta -LRB- 25-35 -RRB- were effective by themselves in inducing NF-kappa B activation, both in the N9 microglial cell line and in rat primary microglia, as well as in human monocytes.
For purposes of comparison, microglia were also stimulated with bacterial LPS, a known NF-kappa B inducer.
As expected, LPS strongly induced the formation of two NF-kappa B DNA-binding activities, one of which was identified as RelA/p50.
The LPS response was also more rapid, as it was already evident by 40 min and remained sustained for up to 3 h..
Effect of adenovirus 2 on cellular gene activation in blood-derived monocytes and macrophages.
We have investigated the effect of adenovirus 2 -LRB- Ad2 -RRB- infection on human monocytes and monocyte-derived macrophages with regard to expression of TNF-alpha and IL-1 beta.
In monocytes, the virus was bound to the surface without being internalized.
On the other hand, Ad2 was internalized by macrophages.
No virus replication and no transcription of the Ad2 early genes was observed in either of the cells.
Ad2 infection induced transient increase in the mRNA levels for TNF-alpha and IL-1 beta in both monocytes and in macrophages, although the kinetics of the transcription was slightly different.
The production of both cytokines, measured by ELISA tests, was enhanced in monocytes.
In macrophages, a slight enhancement of TNF-alpha production was seen, whereas IL-1 beta was not detected.
Of the GATA-binding proteins, only GATA-4 selectively regulates the human IL-5 gene promoter in IL-5 producing cells which express multiple GATA-binding proteins.
Interleukin-5 -LRB- IL-5 -RRB- is produced by T lymphocytes and known to support B cell growth and eosinophilic differentiation of the progenitor cells.
Using ATL-16T cells which express IL-5 mRNA, we have identified a region, within the human IL-5 gene promoter, that regulates IL-5 gene transcription.
In this report, we describe the cloning of human GATA-4 -LRB- hGATA-4 -RRB- and show that hGATA-4 selectively interacts with the -70 GATA site within the IL-5 proximal promoter region.
By promoter deletion and mutation analyses, we established this region as a positive regulatory element.
Cotransfection experiments revealed that both hGATA-4 and PMA/A23187 stimulation are necessary for the IL-5 promoter activation.
The requirement of another regulatory element called CLE0, which lies downstream of the -70 GATA site, was also demonstrated.
ATL-16T cells express mRNA of three GATA-binding proteins, hGATA-2, hGATA-3 and hGATA-4, and each of them has a potential to bind to the consensus -LRB- A/T -RRB- GATA -LRB- G / A -RRB- motif.
However, using ATL-16T nuclear extract, we demonstrated that GATA-4 is the only GATA-binding protein that forms specific DNA-protein complex with the -70 GATA site.
The electrophoretic mobility shift assay with extracts of COS cells expressing GATA-binding proteins showed that GATA-4 has the highest binding affinity to the -70 GATA site among the three GATA-binding proteins.
When the transactivation ability was compared among the three, GATA-4 showed the highest activity.
These results demonstrate the selective role of GATA-4 in the transcriptional regulation of the IL-5 gene in a circumstance where multiple members of the GATA-binding proteins are expressed.
AP-1 derived from mature monocytes and astrocytes preferentially interacts with the HTLV-I promoter central 21 bp repeat.
Electrophoretic mobility shift -LRB- EMS -RRB- analyses utilizing oligonucleotides homologous to each of the 21 bp repeat elements reacted with nuclear extracts derived from cell lines of lymphocytic, monocytic, neuronal, and glial cell origin have demonstrated differential binding of cellular factors to the three 21 bp repeats -LRB- 1-4 -RRB-.
ATF/CREB and Sp family members interacted with the 21 bp repeats to form DNA-protein complexes common to all cell types examined.
However, a unique DNA-protein complex was detected when the promoter central 21 bp repeat was reacted with nuclear extracts derived from either the U-373 MG glioblastoma cell line or the THP-1 mature monocytic cell line.
Based on nucleotide sequence requirements and immunoreactivity, we demonstrate that this DNA-protein complex is comprised of the AP-1 components, Fos and Jun..
Lipopolysaccharide induction of the tumor necrosis factor-alpha promoter in human monocytic cells.
Regulation by Egr-1, c-Jun, and NF-kappaB transcription factors.
Biosynthesis of tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- is predominantly by cells of the monocytic lineage.
This study examined the role of various cis-acting regulatory elements in the lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- induction of the human TNF-alpha promoter in cells of monocytic lineage.
Functional analysis of monocytic THP-1 cells transfected with plasmids containing various lengths of TNF-alpha promoter localized enhancer elements in a region -LRB- -182 to -37 base pairs -LRB- bp -RRB- -RRB- that were required for optimal transcription of the TNF-alpha gene in response to LPS.
Two regions were identified : region I -LRB- -182 to -162 bp -RRB- contained an overlapping Sp1/Egr -1 site, and region II -LRB- -119 to -88 -RRB- contained CRE and NF-kappaB -LRB- designated kappaB3 -RRB- sites.
In unstimulated THP-1, CRE-binding protein and, to a lesser extent, c-Jun complexes were found to bind to the CRE site.
LPS stimulation increased the binding of c-Jun-containing complexes.
In addition, LPS stimulation induced the binding of cognate nuclear factors to the Egr-1 and kappaB3 sites, which were identified as Egr-1 and p50/p65, respectively.
The CRE and kappaB3 sites in region II together conferred strong LPS responsiveness to a heterologous promoter, whereas individually they failed to provide transcriptional activation.
Inducible expression and phosphorylation of coactivator BOB .1 / OBF .1 in T cells -LSB- see comments -RSB-.
BOB .1 / OBF .1 is a transcriptional coactivator that is constitutively expressed in B cells and interacts with the Oct1 and Oct2 transcription factors.
Upon activation of Jurkat T cells and primary murine thymocytes with phorbol esters and ionomycin, BOB .1 / OBF .1 expression and transactivation function were induced.
BOB .1 / OBF .1 was phosphorylated at Ser184 both in vivo and in vitro, and this modification was required for inducible activation.
Thus, BOB .1 / OBF .1 is a transcriptional coactivator that is critically regulated by posttranslational modifications to mediate cell type-specific gene expression.
ETS1, NFkappaB and AP1 synergistically transactivate the human GM-CSF promoter.
Activation of helper T cells results in coordinate expression of a number of cytokines involved in differentiation, proliferation and activation of the haematopoietic system.
Granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor -LRB- GM-CSF -RRB- is one such cytokine, whose increased expression results mostly from increases in transcription.
Cis-acting elements with NFkappaB, AP1 and ETS-like binding motifs have been identified in the promoter region of the GM-CSF gene, and are important or essential for transcriptional activity following T cell activation.
ETS1 is a transcription factor of the ETS family that is expressed in T cells.
We have previously shown that ETS1 can transactivate GM-CSF in Jurkat T cells, but only after the cells have been stimulated by treatment with PMA and ionomycin, agents that mimic T cell activation.
Here we show that ETS1 can transactivate a GM-CSF reporter construct in unstimulated Jurkat cells, providing that either NFkappaB or AP1 transcription factors are supplied by co-transfection.
We confirm that binding of endogenous NFkappaB and AP1 is induced following PMA/ionomycin treatment of T cells.
Transactivation by ETS1, NFkappaB and AP1 is synergistic, and mutation of the individual binding sites reveals that the transcriptional activities of these factors are interdependent.
Concomitant downregulation of IgH 3' enhancer activity and c-myc expression in a plasmacytoma x fibroblast environment : implications for dysregulation of translocated c-myc.
Regulation of immunoglobulin heavy chain -LRB- IgH -RRB- gene expression is controlled by a B cell-specific promoter, intronic enhancer and additional B cell-specific enhancer elements identified recently in the 3' end of the IgH locus.
One of the latter elements, the IgH 3' enhancer, is of particular interest : -LRB- 1 -RRB- it is B cell-specific and active only in late B cell development ; -LRB- 2 -RRB- in rodent plasmacytomas and in some human Burkitt 's lymphomas it is part of a locus control region -LRB- LCR -RRB- that is involved in deregulation of the c-myc oncogene as a result of translocation into the IgH locus ; and -LRB- 3 -RRB- it has been implicated in the mechanisms that control Ig gene class switch recombination.
We have used a somatic cell hybridization approach to genetically analyse regulation of the activity of the IgH 3' enhancer.
When mouse MPC11 plasmacytoma cells, in which the IgH 3' enhancer is active, are fused with fibroblasts, Ig expression is extinguished at the level of transcription.
Here we show that in a MPC11 plasmacytoma x fibroblast environment, the IgH 3' enhancer is transcriptionally inactive.
Moreover, the high expression level of c-myc, characteristic of the parental MPC11 cells carrying the t -LRB- 12 ; 15 -RRB- translocation, is down-regulated in the hybrids to that in unfused fibroblasts.
Therefore, inactivation of the IgH 3' enhancer is a multifactorial process affecting several transcription factors that control the cell-specific and developmental activity of the enhancer.
Relief of cyclin A gene transcriptional inhibition during activation of human primary T lymphocytes via CD2 and CD28 adhesion molecules.
Cyclin A transcription is cell cycle regulated and induced by cell proliferative signals.
To understand the mechanisms underlined in this regulation in normal human cells, we have analysed in vivo protein-DNA interactions at the Cyclin A locus in primary T lymphocytes.
Stimulation of purified T lymphocytes by a combination of monoclonal antibodies directed at CD2 and CD28 adhesion molecules gives rise to a long lasting proliferation in the absence of accessory cells.
Cyclin A was observed after 4 days of costimulation with anti CD2 + CD28 whereas stimulation by anti CD2 or anti CD28 alone was not effective.
In vivo genomic DMS footprinting revealed upstream of the major transcription initiation sites, the presence of at least three protein binding sites, two of which were constitutively occupied.
They bind in vitro respectively ATF-1 and NF-Y proteins.
The third site was occupied in quiescent cells or in cells stimulated by anti CD2 or anti CD28 alone.
The mitogenic combination of anti CD2 + anti CD28 released the footprint as cells were committed to proliferation.
Consistent with theses results, nuclear extracts prepared from quiescent cells formed a specific complex with this element, whereas extracts prepared from cells treated with anti CD2 + anti CD28 failed to do so after cells entered a proliferative state.
The IL-4 receptor alpha-chain cytoplasmic domain is sufficient for activation of JAK-1 and STAT6 and the induction of IL-4-specific gene expression.
The common gamma-chain -LRB- gamma -LRB- c -RRB- -RRB- is a functional component of the IL-4R, yet cells lacking gamma -LRB- c -RRB- are able to respond to IL-4.
To test this latter possibility, a chimeric receptor containing the extracellular domain of c-kit -LRB- the stem cell factor -LRB- SCF -RRB- receptor -RRB- and the cytoplasmic and transmembrane domains of the IL-4R alpha chain was generated.
Treatment of cells expressing the chimeric receptor kit/IL -4 R alpha with SCF induces activation of the IL-4R alpha-associated kinase JAK-1 and the transcription factor STAT6.
However, tyrosine phosphorylation of JAK-3, which associates with gamma -LRB- c -RRB-, is not induced by SCF in these cells.
SCF-mediated ligation of kit/IL -4 R alpha is sufficient to elicit IL-4-specific gene expression, including up-regulation of CD23 and synthesis of germ-line epsilon transcripts.
In the T cell line CTLL2, ligation of kit/IL -4 R alpha induces cellular proliferation.
Finally, in JAK-1-deficient HeLa cells, STAT6 activation by IL-4 is completely abolished.
Together, these data demonstrate that the IL-4R alpha cytoplasmic domain is sufficient to activate JAK-1 and STAT6 and to induce expression of IL-4 target genes, thus identifying a mechanism by which IL-4 signaling can proceed in the absence of JAK-3 and gamma -LRB- c -RRB-.
Biphasic control of NF-kappa B activation induced by the triggering of HLA-DR antigens expressed on B cells.
The regulation of NF-kappa B activation following the triggering of HLA-DR antigens by mAb L243 has been studied at various times in Raji cells.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays demonstrated a strong increase of NF-kappa B DNA binding after triggering of HLA-DR antigens.
Using TNF-alpha-activity neutralizing antibodies, the authors demonstrated that the upregulation of NF-kappa B was found to depend, at later time point, on an autocrine effect of TNF-alpha secreted following triggering of HLA-DR antigens.
In contrast, it was found to be TNF-alpha independent in the early time point.
Moreover, the upregulation of NF-kappa B binding activity is regulated by the triggering of selected epitopes of HLA-DR antigens.
In fact, mAb L243 but not the staphylococcal superantigens, staphylococcal exotoxin toxic shock syndrome toxin-I or staphylococcal enterotoxin B, regulate the NF-kappa B binding activity.
Interleukin-10 inhibits interferon-gamma-induced intercellular adhesion molecule-1 gene transcription in human monocytes.
Interleukin-10 -LRB- IL-10 -RRB- is a potent monocyte regulatory cytokine that inhibits gene expression of proinflammatory mediators.
In this study, we investigated the mechanism by which IL-10 downregulates expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- ICAM-1 -RRB- on the cell surface of normal human monocytes activated with interferon-gamma -LRB- IFN-gamma -RRB-.
IL-10 inhibition of IFN-gamma-induced ICAM-1 expression was apparent as early as 3 hours and was blocked by an anti-IL-10 antibody but not by an isotype-matched control antibody.
Northern blot analysis showed that IL-10 reduced the accumulation of ICAM-1 mRNA in IFN-gamma-stimulated monocytes.
IL-10 inhibition of ICAM-1 steady-state mRNA was detected at 3 hours and remained at 24 hours.
Nuclear run-on transcription assays showed that IL-10 inhibited the rate of IFN-gamma-induced transcription of the ICAM-1 gene, and mRNA stability studies showed that IL-10 did not alter the half-life of IFN-gamma-induced ICAM-1 message.
Thus, IL-10 inhibits IFN-gamma-induced ICAM-1 expression in monocytes primarily at the level of gene transcription.
Activation of IFN-gamma-responsive genes requires tyrosine phosphorylation of the transcriptional factor STAT-1alpha -LRB- signal transducer and activator of transcription-1alpha -RRB-.
However, IL-10 did not affect IFN-gamma-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT-1alpha or alter STAT-1alpha binding to the IFN-gamma response element -LRB- IRE -RRB- in the ICAM-1 promoter.
Instead, IL-10 prevented IFN-gamma-induced binding activity at the NF-kappaB site of the tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- - responsive NF-kappaB/C-EBP composite element in the ICAM-1 promoter.
The immediate-early gene product Egr-1 regulates the human interleukin-2 receptor beta-chain promoter through noncanonical Egr and Sp1 binding sites.
The interleukin-2 IL-2 receptor beta-chain -LRB- IL-2Rbeta -RRB- is an essential component of the receptors for IL-2 and IL-15.
Although IL-2Rbeta is constitutively expressed by lymphocytes, its expression can be further induced by a number of stimuli, including phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB-.
We have now characterized factors that bind to an enhancer region located between nucleotides -170 and -139 of the human IL-2Rbeta promoter.
Both Sp1 and Sp3 bound to the 5' portion of this region, whereas a PMA-inducible factor -LRB- PIF -RRB- mainly bound to its 3' portion and bound to the Sp binding motifs as well.
In Jurkat T cells, induction of PIF DNA binding activity was rapidly induced, required de novo protein synthesis, and was sustained at a high level for at least 23 h..
Interestingly, PIF was constitutively activated in human T-cell leukemia virus type 1-transformed MT-2 cells.
In this paper, we demonstrate that PIF is Egr-1 based on its recognition by anti-Egr-1 antisera in gel mobility shift assays, even though the IL-2Rbeta DNA binding motif differed substantially from the canonical Egr-1 binding site.
In addition, Egr-1 bound to the Sp binding site.
In Jurkat cells, both sites were required for maximal IL-2Rbeta promoter activity, and in HeLaS3 cells, transfection of Egr-1 could drive activity of a reporter construct containing both sites.
Moreover, Sp1 and Egr-1 could form a complex with kinetics that correlated with the production of Egr-1 in Jurkat cells upon PMA stimulation.
Thus, Sp1 and Egr-1 physically and functionally cooperate to mediate maximal IL-2Rbeta promoter activity.
Comparison of the transactivation domains of Stat5 and Stat6 in lymphoid cells and mammary epithelial cells.
Stat -LRB- signal transducers and activators of transcription -RRB- and Jak -LRB- Janus kinases -RRB- proteins are central components in the signal transduction events in hematopoietic and epithelial cells.
They are rapidly activated by various cytokines, hormones, and growth factors.
Upon ligand binding and cytokine receptor dimerization, Stat proteins are phosphorylated on tyrosine residues by Jak kinases.
Activated Stat proteins form homo - or heterodimers, translocate to the nucleus, and induce transcription from responsive genes.
Stat5 and Stat6 are transcription factors active in mammary epithelial cells and immune cells.
Prolactin activates Stat5, and interleukin-4 -LRB- IL-4 -RRB- activates Stat6.
Both cytokines are able to stimulate cell proliferation, differentiation, and survival.
We investigated the transactivation potential of Stat6 and found that it is not restricted to lymphocytes.
IL-4-dependent activation of Stat6 was also observed in HC11 mammary epithelial cells.
In these cells, Stat6 activation led to the induction of the beta-casein gene promoter.
The induction of this promoter was confirmed in COS7 cells.
The glucocorticoid receptor was able to further enhance IL-4-induced gene transcription through the action of Stat6.
Deletion analysis of the carboxyl-terminal region of Stat6 and recombination of this region with a heterologous DNA binding domain allowed the delimitation and characterization of the transactivation domain of Stat6.
The potencies of the transactivation domains of Stat5, Stat6, and viral protein VP16 were compared.
Stat6 had a transactivation domain which was about 10-fold stronger than that of Stat5.
In pre-B cells -LRB- Ba/F3 -RRB-, the transactivation domain of Stat6 was IL-4 regulated, independently from its DNA binding function.
GABP factors bind to a distal interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- enhancer and contribute to c-Raf-mediated increase in IL-2 induction.
Triggering of the T-cell receptor-CD3 complex activates two major signal cascades in T lymphocytes, -LRB- i -RRB- Ca2 + - dependent signal cascades and -LRB- ii -RRB- protein kinase cascades.
Both signal cascades contribute to the induction of the interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- gene during T-cell activation.
Prominent protein kinase cascades are those that activate mitogen-activated protein -LRB- MAP -RRB- kinases.
We show here that c-Raf, which is at the helm of the classic MAP-Erk cascade, contributes to IL-2 induction through a distal enhancer element spanning the nucleotides from positions -502 to -413 in front of the transcriptional start site of the IL-2 gene.
Induction of this distal IL-2 enhancer differs from induction of the proximal IL-2 promoter-enhancer, since it is induced by phorbol esters alone and independent from Ca2 + signals.
In DNA-protein binding studies, we detected the binding of transcription factors GABP alpha and - beta to a dyad symmetry element -LRB- DSE -RRB- of the distal enhancer, which is formed by palindromic binding sites of Ets-like factors.
Introduction of point mutations suppressing GABP binding to the DSE interfered with the induction of the distal enhancer and the entire IL-2 promoter-enhancer, while overexpression of both GABP factors enhanced the IL-2 promoter-enhancer induction.
Overexpression of BXB, a constitutive active version of c-Raf, and of further members of the Ras-Raf-Erk signal cascade exerted an increase of GABP-mediated promoter-enhancer induction.
The product of the murine homolog of the Drosophila extra sex combs gene displays transcriptional repressor activity.
Using a fragment of K protein as bait in the yeast two-hybrid screen, we isolated a cDNA that encodes a protein whose primary structure has extensive similarity to the Drosophila melanogaster extra sex combs -LRB- esc -RRB- gene product, Esc, a putative silencer of homeotic genes.
The cDNA that we isolated is identical to the cDNA of the recently positionally cloned mouse embryonic ectoderm development gene, eed.
Eed binds to K protein through a domain in its N terminus, but interestingly, this domain is not found in the Drosophila Esc.
Gal4-Eed fusion protein represses transcription of a reporter gene driven by a promoter that contains Gal4-binding DNA elements.
Eed also represses transcription when recruited to a target promoter by Gal4-K protein.
Point mutations within the eed gene that are responsible for severe embryonic development abnormalities abolished the transcriptional repressor activity of Eed.
Involvement of Rel, Fos, and Jun proteins in binding activity to the IL-2 promoter CD28 response element/AP -1 sequence in human T cells.
CD28 is an important costimulatory molecule in the activation of human T cells.
Costimulation of T cells through both the Ag receptor and CD28 leads to high level IL-2 production, which is vital to the development of an immune response in vivo.
Also in the current study, binding activity to the CD28RE/AP -1 sequence of the IL-2 promoter is evaluated.
Although four specific complexes can be detected binding to this sequence, only one of these complexes is specific for both the CD28RE and the adjacent AP-1 site.
Of the NF-kappaB/Rel family members tested, this CD28RE/AP -1 - specific complex contains predominantly c-Rel, despite the fact that both p50 and RelA can efficiently bind to the CD28RE.
c-Fos and c-Jun are also found in this CD28RE/AP -1 - specific complex.
c-Myb and Ets proteins synergize to overcome transcriptional repression by ZEB.
The Zfh family of zinc finger/homeodomain proteins was first identified in Drosophila where it is required for differentiation of tissues such as the central nervous system and muscle.
ZEB, a vertebrate homolog of Zfh-1, binds a subset of E boxes and blocks myogenesis through transcriptional repression of muscle genes.
We present evidence here that ZEB also has an important role in controlling hematopoietic gene transcription.
Two families of transcription factors that are required for normal hematopoiesis are c-Myb and Ets.
These factors act synergistically to activate transcription, and this synergy is required for transcription of at least several important hematopoietic genes.
ZEB blocks the activity of c-Myb and Ets individually, but together the factors synergize to resist this repression.
Such repression imposes a requirement for both c-Myb and Ets for transcriptional activity, providing one explanation for why synergy between these factors is important.
The balance between repression by ZEB and transcriptional activation by c-Myb/Ets provides a flexible regulatory mechanism for controlling gene expression in hematopoietic cells.
We demonstrate that one target of this positive/negative regulation in vivo is the alpha4 integrin, which play a key role in normal hematopoiesis and function of mature leukocytes.
A human homologue of the Drosophila Toll protein signals activation of adaptive immunity -LSB- see comments -RSB-.
Induction of the adaptive immune response depends on the expression of co-stimulatory molecules and cytokines by antigen-presenting cells.
The mechanisms that control the initial induction of these signals upon infection are poorly understood.
It has been proposed that their expression is controlled by the non-clonal, or innate, component of immunity that preceded in evolution the development of an adaptive immune system in vertebrates.
We report here the cloning and characterization of a human homologue of the Drosophila toll protein -LRB- Toll -RRB- which has been shown to induce the innate immune response in adult Drosophila.
Like Drosophila Toll, human Toll is a type I transmembrane protein with an extracellular domain consisting of a leucine-rich repeat -LRB- LRR -RRB- domain, and a cytoplasmic domain homologous to the cytoplasmic domain of the human interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -1 receptor.
Both Drosophila Toll and the IL-1 receptor are known to signal through the NF-kappaB pathway.
We show that a constitutively active mutant of human Toll transfected into human cell lines can induce the activation of NF-kappaB and the expression of NF-kappaB-controlled genes for the inflammatory cytokines IL-1, IL-6 and IL-8, as well as the expression of the co-stimulatory molecule B7 .1, which is required for the activation of naive T cells.
Bcl-2 protein inhibits bufalin-induced apoptosis through inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase activation in human leukemia U937 cells.
In a previous study, we demonstrated that bufalin, which is an active principle of Chinese medicine, chan ` su, caused apoptosis in human leukemia U937 cells by anomalous activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase -LRB- MAPK -RRB- via the signaling pathway of Ras, Raf-1, and MAPK kinase-1.
Here, we report the effect of overexpression of bcl-2 in U937 cells on the signaling pathway of apoptosis that is induced by bufalin.
No significant difference was detected in the activation of MAPK kinase-1 that is induced by bufalin in wild-type or Bcl-2-overexpressed U937 cells ; however, the activation of MAPK by bufalin was significantly attenuated in the cells overexpressing Bcl-2.
Bufalin treatment activated activator protein-1 transcriptional activity ; however, this activation was decreased to 40 % in bcl-2-overexpressed U937 cells.
Opposite effects of the acute promyelocytic leukemia PML-retinoic acid receptor alpha -LRB- RAR alpha -RRB- and PLZF-RAR alpha fusion proteins on retinoic acid signalling.
Fusion proteins involving the retinoic acid receptor alpha -LRB- RAR alpha -RRB- and the PML or PLZF nuclear protein are the genetic markers of acute promyelocytic leukemias -LRB- APLs -RRB-.
APLs with the PML-RAR alpha or the PLZF-RAR alpha fusion protein are phenotypically indistinguishable except that they differ in their sensitivity to retinoic acid -LRB- RA -RRB- - induced differentiation : PML-RAR alpha blasts are sensitive to RA and patients enter disease remission after RA treatment, while patients with PLZF-RAR alpha do not.
We here report that -LRB- i -RRB- like PML-RAR alpha expression, PLZF-RAR alpha expression blocks terminal differentiation of hematopoietic precursor cell lines -LRB- U937 and HL-60 -RRB- in response to different stimuli -LRB- vitamin D3, transforming growth factor beta1, and dimethyl sulfoxide -RRB- ; -LRB- ii -RRB- PML-RAR alpha, but not PLZF-RAR alpha, increases RA sensitivity of hematopoietic precursor cells and restores RA sensitivity of RA-resistant hematopoietic cells ; -LRB- iii -RRB- PML-RAR alpha and PLZF-RAR alpha have similar RA binding affinities ; and -LRB- iv -RRB- PML-RAR alpha enhances the RA response of RA target genes -LRB- those for RAR beta, RAR gamma, and transglutaminase type II -LSB- TGase -RSB- -RRB- in vivo, while PLZF-RAR alpha expression has either no effect -LRB- RAR beta -RRB- or an inhibitory activity -LRB- RAR gamma and type II TGase -RRB-.
These data demonstrate that PML-RAR alpha and PLZF-RAR alpha have similar -LRB- inhibitory -RRB- effects on RA-independent differentiation and opposite -LRB- stimulatory or inhibitory -RRB- effects on RA-dependent differentiation and that they behave in vivo as RA-dependent enhancers or inhibitors of RA-responsive genes, respectively.
The PLZF-RAR alpha fusion protein contains an approximately 120-amino-acid N-terminal motif -LRB- called the POZ domain -RRB-, which is also found in a variety of zinc finger proteins and a group of poxvirus proteins and which mediates protein-protein interactions.
Induction of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 expression in monocytic cells by Cryptococcus neoformans and Candida albicans.
Because candidiasis and cryptococcosis are common in human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- - infected persons, the effect of Cryptococcus neoformans and Candida albicans on HIV expression in monocytic cells was examined.
Stimulation of the latently HIV-infected myelomonocytic cell line OM-10 .1 with C. neoformans and C. albicans in the presence of pooled human serum caused a ratio-dependent increase in HIV production.
Induction of HIV by C. neoformans was enhanced by anti-capsular antibody, while induction by both organisms was inhibited by anti-TNF-alpha antibody.
In THP-1 cells transfected with HIV plasmid constructs, both organisms induced transcription from the HIV long terminal repeat that was dependent on intact NF-kappaB binding sequences.
Thus, C. neoformans and C. albicans enhance HIV expression in monocytic cells through a TNF-alpha - and NF-kappaB-dependent mechanism.
Association between expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and integration of human T-cell-leukemia virus type 1 in adult T-cell leukemia cells.
It is known that the expression levels of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- ICAM-1 -RRB- in adult T cell leukemia -LRB- ATL -RRB- cells are high, whereas those in T-lymphoid cells are not.
In order to investigate the factors that influence the induction of ICAM-1 molecules, Northern blot analysis to measure the expression level of ICAM-1 mRNAs and Southern blot hybridization to analyze the integration of human T-cell-leukemia virus type 1 -LRB- HTLV-1 -RRB- provirus were done.
The levels of ICAM-1 mRNA expression of ATL cells were generally higher than those of T-lymphoid cells.
However, ILT-mat cells and ATL16T -LRB- - -RRB- cells, although they were ATL cells, showed rather low surface ICAM-1 expression and ICAM-1 mRNA expression.
Southern blot hybridization showed that only two and four bands were found in ILT-mat and ATL16T -LRB- - -RRB- cells, respectively, whereas > 10 bands were detected in other ATL cells.
Transcription factor binding sites downstream of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 transcription start site are important for virus infectivity.
When transcriptionally active, the human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- promoter contains a nucleosome-free region encompassing both the promoter/enhancer region and a large region -LRB- 255 nucleotides -LSB- nt -RSB- -RRB- downstream of the transcription start site.
We have previously identified new binding sites for transcription factors downstream of the transcription start site -LRB- nt 465 to 720 -RRB- : three AP-1 sites -LRB- I, II, and III -RRB-, an AP3-like motif -LRB- AP3-L -RRB-, a downstream binding factor -LRB- DBF -RRB- site, and juxtaposed Sp1 sites.
Here, we show that the DBF site is an interferon-responsive factor -LRB- IRF -RRB- binding site and that the AP3-L motif binds the T-cell-specific factor NF-AT.
Mutations that abolish the binding of each factor to its cognate site are introduced in an infectious HIV-1 molecular clone to study their effect on HIV-1 transcription and replication.
Individual mutation of the DBF or AP3-L site as well as the double mutation AP-1 -LRB- III -RRB- / AP3-L did not affect HIV-1 replication compared to that of the wild-type virus.
In contrast, proviruses carrying mutations in the Sp1 sites were totally defective in terms of replication.
Virus production occurred with slightly delayed kinetics for viruses containing combined mutations in the AP-1 -LRB- III -RRB-, AP3-L, and DBF sites and in the AP3-L and DBF-sites, whereas viruses mutated in the AP-1 -LRB- I, II, III -RRB- and AP3-L sites and in the AP-1 -LRB- I, II, III -RRB-, AP3-L, and DBF sites exhibited a severely defective replicative phenotype.
No RNA-packaging defect could be measured for any of the mutant viruses as determined by quantification of their HIV genomic RNA.
Measurement of the transcriptional activity of the HIV-1 promoter after transient transfection of the HIV-1 provirus DNA or of long terminal repeat-luciferase constructs showed a positive correlation between the transcriptional and the replication defects for most mutants.
Role of the X2 box in activated transcription from the DRA promoter in B cells.
We investigated the function of the evolutionary conserved X2 box in the promoter of the HLA-DRA gene from the human major histocompatibility complex -LRB- MHC -RRB- in resting and activated B cells.
NF-X2, which contains members of the AP-1 / ATF/CREB families of transcription factors, interacts with the X2 box -LRB- 5' - TGCGTCA-3' -RRB- from positions -97 to -91 in the DRA promoter.
In resting Raji cells, little to no binding to the X2 box was observed.
In sharp contrast, in B cells treated with the phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB-, strong interactions between the X2 box and NF-X2 containing c-Fos were observed.
As determined by transient expression and RNA analyses, the activation of protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- also increased rates of transcription from the wild-type DRA promoter but not from a DRA promoter bearing clustered point mutations in the X2 box.
Since the co-expression with a dominant negative c-Fos abolished the responsiveness to TPA, we conclude that activated transcription of the DRA gene depends on interactions between the X2 box and NF-X2, which contains c-Fos.
Rescue by cytokines of apoptotic cell death induced by IL-2 deprivation of human antigen-specific T cell clones.
The control of cell survival and cell death is of central importance in tissues with high cell turnover such as the lymphoid system.
We have examined the effect of cytokines on IL-2 deprivation-induced apoptosis of human antigen-specific T helper clones with different cytokine production profiles.
We found that IL-2, interferon-alpha -LRB- IFN-alpha -RRB-, and IFN-beta inhibited IL-2 deprivation apoptosis in Th0, Th1, and Th2 clones.
We also found that IL-2 protects T cell clones from IL-2 deprivation apoptosis accompanying active proliferation and enhanced expression of P53, Rb and Bcl-xL proteins.
In contrast, IFN-alpha/beta rescued T cell clones from apoptosis without active proliferation, and expression of apoptosis-associated proteins tested so far was unaffected.
IFN-alpha/beta specifically induced tyrosine phosphorylation and translocation into nucleus of signal transducers and activators of transcription -LRB- STAT -RRB- 2 protein in the T cell clones.
In addition, over-expression of STAT2 by transfection of the cDNA prevented apoptosis of the T cell clones.
Our present study shows that IFN-alpha and - beta mediate anti-apoptotic effect through other pathways than that of IL-2 in growth factor deprivation apoptosis.
Pancreatic islet expression studies and polymorphic DNA markers in the genes encoding hepatocyte nuclear factor-3alpha, -3 beta, -3 gamma, -4 gamma, and -6.
The genes encoding the functionally related hepatocyte nuclear factors HNF-1alpha and HNF-4alpha play a critical role in normal pancreatic beta-cell function.
Mutations in these liver-enriched transcription factors result in two forms of early-onset type 2 diabetes -LRB- maturity-onset diabetes of the young -LSB- MODY -RSB- -RRB-, MODY3 and MODY1, which are characterized by impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, early disease onset, and autosomal dominant inheritance.
In this study, we show that HNF-3alpha, -3 beta, -3 gamma, -4 gamma, and -6 are expressed in pancreatic beta-cells.
We report the identification and characterization of simple tandem repeat DNA polymorphisms in the genes encoding HNF-3alpha, -3 beta, -3 gamma, -4 gamma, and -6 and the mapping of HNF-6 to chromosome bands 15q21.1-21 .2 by fluorescence in situ hybridization.
These markers will be useful to study the role of genetic variation in these genes in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes.
RP1, a new member of the adenomatous polyposis coli-binding EB1-like gene family, is differentially expressed in activated T cells.
Cross-linking of the CD3 and CD28 molecules on T lymphocytes represents one of the most effective signals for T lymphocyte activation and triggering of their cytotoxic effector function.
To identify genes that are expressed in T cells after stimulation, mRNA from T lymphocytes that had been activated by the simultaneous stimulation of the CD3 and CD28 trigger molecules was transcribed for a differential mRNA display analysis into cDNA and was compared with cDNA from CD28 - or CD3-activated or resting lymphocytes.
Differential expression was confirmed subsequently by Northern blot analysis.
One of the cDNA fragments expressed specifically in CD3 - and CD28-activated T cells was designated RP1.
The predictive protein-coding region of RP1 had a significant homology to members of the recently found adenomatous polyposis coli -LRB- APC -RRB- protein-binding EB1 gene family, which codes for yet unknown protein -LRB- s -RRB-.
Bacterially expressed RP1 protein revealed specific binding to wild-type but not to mutated APC protein.
The role of nuclear factor-kappa B in cytokine gene regulation.
Transcription factors are DNA-binding proteins that regulate gene expression.
Nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- is a critical transcription factor for maximal expression of many cytokines that are involved in the pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases, such as adult respiratory distress syndrome -LRB- ARDS -RRB- and sepsis syndrome.
Activation and regulation of NF-kappa B are tightly controlled by a group of inhibitory proteins -LRB- I kappa B -RRB- that sequester NF-kappa B in the cytoplasm of immune/inflammatory effector cells.
NF-kappa B activation involves signaled phosphorylation, ubiquitination, and proteolysis of I kappa B..
Liberated NF-kappa B migrates to the nucleus, where it binds to specific promoter sites and activates gene transcription.
The activation of NF-kappa B initiates both extracellular and intracellular regulatory events that result in autoregulation of the inflammatory cascade through modulation of NF-kappa B activation.
Recently, activation of NF-kappa B has been linked to ARDS and has been shown to be a critical proximal step in the initiation of neutrophilic inflammation in animal models.
Activation of NF-kappa B can be inhibited in vivo by treatment with antioxidants, corticosteroids, and the induction of endotoxin tolerance.
Role of ascorbate in the activation of NF-kappaB by tumour necrosis factor-alpha in T-cells.
The first product of ascorbate oxidation, the ascorbate free radical -LRB- AFR -RRB-, acts in biological systems mainly as an oxidant, and through its role in the plasma membrane redox system exerts different effects on the cell.
We have investigated the role of ascorbate, AFR and dehydroascorbate -LRB- DHA -RRB- in the activation of the NF-kappaB transcription factor in Jurkat T-cells stimulated by tumour necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB-.
Here we show, by electrophoretic mobility shift assays, that ascorbate increases the binding of NF-kappaB to DNA in TNF-alpha-stimulated Jurkat cells.
The ability of ascorbate to enhance cytoplasmic inhibitory IkBalpha protein degradation correlates completely with its capacity to induce NF-kappaB binding to DNA and to potentiate NF-kappaB-mediated transactivation of the HIV-1 long terminal repeat promoter in TNF-alpha-stimulated Jurkat cells but not in cells stimulated with PMA plus ionomycin.
AFR behaves like ascorbate, while DHA and ascorbate phosphate do not affect TNF-alpha-mediated NF-kappaB activation.
Activation of transcription factor NF-kappa B by phagocytic stimuli in human neutrophils.
Phagocytosis represents an important physiological trigger for the inducible expression of several genes in human neutrophils.
Here, we report that a DNA-binding activity primarily consisting of the classical NF-kappa B heterodimer, p50/RelA, is induced in phagocytosing neutrophils.
Under these conditions, NF-kappa B activation was found to be a rapid and transient response, reaching a maximum by 10-15 min, and returning to near-basal levels by 30 min.
In neutrophils undergoing the phagocytosis of opsonized yeasts, the onset of NF-kappa B activation was paralleled by a decline in immunoreactive I kappa B-alpha protein levels, and the cellular I kappa B-alpha pool was replenished by 30 min, in agreement with our gel shift data.
To our knowledge, this represents the first demonstration that phagocytic stimuli can induce NF-kappa B activation in human neutrophils.
Epstein-Barr virus binding to CD21 activates the initial viral promoter via NF-kappaB induction.
Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB-, an oncogenic human herpesvirus, binds to and infects normal human B lymphocytes via CD21, the CR2 complement receptor.
Studies of the mechanisms that enable EBV to infect nonactivated, noncycling B cells provide compelling evidence for a sequence of events in which EBV binding to CD21 on purified resting human B cells rapidly activates the NF-kappaB transcription factor, which, in turn, binds to and mediates transcriptional activation of Wp, the initial viral latent gene promoter.
Thus, EBV binding to its cellular receptor on resting B cells triggers an NF-kappaB-dependent intracellular signaling pathway which is required for infection.
CholecystokininB receptor from human Jurkat lymphoblastic T cells is involved in activator protein-1-responsive gene activation.
The aim of this study was to analyze the role of cholecystokinin -LRB- CCK -LRB- B -RRB- -RRB- receptor in human lymphoblastic Jurkat T cells.
We investigated the trophic effect resulting from activation of such a receptor by using the reporter gene strategy.
For this purpose, we transiently transfected Jurkat T cells with the reporter plasmid p -LSB- -LRB- TRE -RRB- 3-tk-Luc -RSB- and found that CCK-8 was able to dose-dependently induce luciferase expression related to activator protein-1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB- activation with a maximal response identical to that obtained with compounds known to activate AP-1 complex -LRB- quantitatively, the same level of induction was obtained with 1 nM 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate, 100 microM diacylglycerol, or 4 nM epidermal growth factor -RRB-.
The involvement of the CCK -LRB- B -RRB- receptor in such a stimulation was demonstrated by the inhibiting effect of the selective CCK -LRB- B -RRB- receptor antagonist PD-135 ,158.
This effect was confirmed in COS-7 cells transfected with the cDNA of CCK -LRB- B -RRB- receptor cloned from Jurkat T cells.
To better understand the AP-1-dependent luciferase expression in Jurkat T cells, we tested two specific inhibitors of serine/threonine phosphatases-1 and -2 A : okadaic acid and calyculin A..
These compounds strongly increased the phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate response, whereas we have not observed a contribution of phosphatase inhibitors on a CCK-8-induced luciferase activity.
To confirm that CCK -LRB- B -RRB- receptors are involved in AP-1 response, we investigated the CCK-8 effect on interleukin-2 expression, a natural endogenous gene regulated by several factors, including AP-1.
In Jurkat T cells activated by phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate and phytohemagglutinin, CCK-8 induced IL-2 expression.
This induction was abolished by PD-135 ,158.
Transcription factors in immune-mediated disease.
A large amount of detailed information about the intracellular proteins regulating NF-kappa B activation and the cellular response to NF-kappa B activation has emerged recently.
Several small molecules, an antisense oligonucleotide, and gene therapeutic agents that inhibit NF-kappa b activation have been described.
Despite this, there are still significant gaps in our understanding of this process and its consequences.
In contrast, the characterization of transcription factors selectively regulating cytokine production by CD4 + T cell subsets is at a very early stage.
Three interacting proteins have recently been shown to contribute to subset-restricted expression of the IL-4 gene.
There are other elements regulating IL-4 gene expression, however, and the relative importance of these recently identified proteins has yet to be determined.
Human monocyte binding to fibronectin enhances IFN-gamma-induced early signaling events.
Leukocyte integrins are fundamentally important in modulating adhesion to extracellular matrix components and to other cells.
This integrin-mediated adhesion controls leukocyte arrest and extravasation during the onset of inflammatory responses.
In the current studies, we evaluated the combinatorial effects of monocyte adhesion and IFN-gamma on intracellular signaling pathways.
IFN-gamma triggers a well-defined signal transduction pathway, which although not directly stimulated by monocyte adherence to fibronectin or arginine-glycine-aspartate -LRB- RGD -RRB- - coated substrata, was enhanced significantly in these matrix-adherent cells.
Compared with monocytes in suspension or adherent on plastic surfaces, monocytes adherent to fibronectin or RGD exhibited a greater than threefold increase in steady state levels of IFN-gamma-induced mRNA for the high affinity Fc gammaRI receptor.
By electrophoretic mobility shift assays, this increase in mRNA was associated with a 5 - to 10-fold increase in the STAT1-containing DNA-binding complex that binds to Fc gammaRI promoter elements.
Furthermore, the tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT1 and the tyrosine kinases JAK1 and JAK2 was enhanced significantly in RGD-adherent monocytes compared with control cells.
Distinct mechanisms for N-acetylcysteine inhibition of cytokine-induced E-selectin and VCAM-1 expression.
We have examined the effects of N-acetyl-L-cysteine -LRB- NAC -RRB-, a well-characterized, thiol-containing antioxidant, on agonist-induced monocytic cell adhesion to endothelial cells -LRB- EC -RRB-.
NAC inhibited interleukin-1 -LRB- IL-1 beta -RRB- - induced, but not basal, adhesion with 50 % inhibition at approximately 20 mM.
Monocytic cell adhesion to EC in response to tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB-, lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-, alpha-thrombin, or phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- was similarly inhibited by NAC.
Unlike published studies with pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate, which specifically inhibited vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 -LRB- VCAM-1 -RRB-, NAC inhibited IL-1 beta-induced mRNA and cell surface expression of both E-selectin and VCAM-1.
NAC had no effect on the half-life of E-selectin or VCAM-1 mRNA.
Although NAC reduced nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- activation in EC as measured by gel-shift assays using an oligonucleotide probe corresponding to the consensus NF-kappa B binding sites of the VCAM-1 gene -LRB- VCAM-NF-kappa B -RRB-, the antioxidant had no appreciable effect when an oligomer corresponding to the consensus NF-kappa B binding site of the E-selectin gene -LRB- E-selectin-NF-kappa B -RRB- was used.
Because NF-kappa B has been reported to be redox sensitive, we studied the effects of NAC on the EC redox environment.
NAC caused an expected dramatic increase in the reduced glutathione -LRB- GSH -RRB- levels in EC.
alpha-Tocopheryl succinate inhibits monocytic cell adhesion to endothelial cells by suppressing NF-kappa B mobilization.
The adherence of monocytes to activated endothelium is an early event in atherogenesis.
Because antioxidants have been considered to be of antiatherosclerotic potential, we investigated the effects of alpha-tocopherol -LRB- TCP -RRB- and its acetate and succinate esters on monocyte adhesion to cytokine-stimulated human umbilical vein endothelial cells -LRB- HUVEC -RRB-.
Endothelial cells were treated with TCP, alpha-tocopherol acetate -LRB- TCP acetate -RRB-, or alpha-tocopheryl succinate -LRB- TCP succinate -RRB- before stimulation with tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha ; 10 U/ml, 6 h -RRB- or interleukin-1 beta -LRB- IL-1 beta ; 10 U/ml, 6 h -RRB-.
Cytokine-stimulated cell surface expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- VCAM-1, CD106 -RRB- and E-selectin -LRB- ELAM-1, CD62E -RRB-, but not of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- ICAM-1, CD54 -RRB-, was time - and dose-dependently inhibited by TCP succinate but not by TCP or TCP acetate.
TCP succinate -LRB- 200 microM, 24 h -RRB- reduced TNF-induced VCAM-1 and E-selectin expression from a specific mean fluorescence intensity of 151 + / - 28 to 12 + / - 4 channels and from 225 + / - 38 to 79 + / - 21 channels, respectively.
Succinate alone had no effect.
Decreased adhesion molecule expression was associated with a reduction of monocytic cell adhesion.
TCP succinate -LRB- 20 microM, 72 h -RRB-, but not TCP -LRB- 200 microM, 72 h -RRB-, reduced U-937 cell adhesion to TNF-alpha-stimulated -LRB- 10 U/ml, 6 h -RRB- HUVEC by 30 % -LRB- P < 0.025 -RRB- and to IL-1 beta-stimulated HUVEC by 56 % -LRB- P < 0.010 -RRB-.
Electrophoretic mobility-shift assays of HUVEC nuclear proteins revealed a decrease in TNF-alpha-stimulated nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- activation after pretreatment of HUVEC with TCP succinate but not with TCP, TCP acetate, or succinate alone.
In conclusion, we demonstrate that the vitamin E derivative TCP succinate prevents monocytic cell adhesion to cytokine-stimulated endothelial cells by inhibiting the activation of NF-kappa B, further emphasizing the antiatherosclerotic potential of lipid soluble antioxidants.
Surfactant protein A activates NF-kappa B in the THP-1 monocytic cell line.
The expression of many genes for which products are involved in inflammation is controlled by the transcriptional regulator nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappa B..
Activation of NF-kappa B in THP-1 cells by SP-A doses as low as 1 microgram/ml occurred within 30 min of SP-A treatment, peaked at 60 min, and then declined.
Moreover, the NF-kappa B inhibitors blocked SP-A-dependent increases in tumor necrosis factor-alpha mRNA levels.
EBF and E47 collaborate to induce expression of the endogenous immunoglobulin surrogate light chain genes.
Early B cell factor -LRB- EBF -RRB- and E47 participate in the transcriptional control of early B lymphocyte differentiation.
With the aim of identifying genetic targets for these transcription factors, we stably transfected cDNAs encoding EBF or a covalent homodimer of E47, individually or together, into immature hematopoietic Ba/F3 cells, which lack both factors.
In combination, EBF and E47 induce efficient expression of the endogenous immunoglobulin surrogate light chain genes, lambda5 and VpreB, whereas other pre-B cell-specific genes remain silent.
Cyclosporin A interferes with the inducible degradation of NF-kappa B inhibitors, but not with the processing of p105/NF-kappa B1 in T cells.
The transcription factor NF-kappa B controls the induction of numerous cytokine promoters during the activation of T lymphocytes.
Inhibition of T cell activation by the immunosuppressants cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB- and FK506 exerts a suppressive effect on the induction of these NF-kappa B-controlled cytokine promoters.
We show for human Jurkat T leukemia cells, as well as human and mouse primary T lymphocytes, that this inhibitory effect is accompanied by an impaired nuclear translocation of the Rel proteins c-Rel, RelA/p65 and NF-kappa B1/p50, whereas the nuclear appearance of RelB remains unaffected.
CsA does not interfere with the synthesis of Rel proteins, but prevents the inducible degradation of cytosolic NF-kappa B inhibitors I kappa B alpha and I kappa B beta upon T cell activation.
CsA neither inhibits the processing of the NF-kappa B1 precursor p105 to p50, nor does it `` stabilize '' the C-terminal portion of p105, I kappa B gamma, which is degraded during p105 processing to mature p50.
Induction of nuclear factor kappa B/Rel nuclear activity in human peripheral blood T lymphocytes by anti-HLA class I monoclonal antibodies.
Monoclonal antibodies against either monomorphic or polymorphic determinants of class I antigen induced in PBMC and highly purified T lymphocytes the nuclear activity of NF-kappa B/Rel complexes.
These included both p50/p50 and p50/p65 dimers, recognized by specific antibodies in EMSA.
The induced complexes were detectable in extracts of cells incubated with anti-class I monoclonal antibody -LRB- mAb -RRB- for 1.5 h ; the induction was maximal at 5 h, persistent at 16 h and no longer observed at 40 h..
The mAb failed to induce NF-kappa B/Rel nuclear activity in cells incubated in the presence of 3,4-dichloroisocoumarin, an inhibitor of I kappa B-alpha degradation.
A shortened life span of EKLF - / - adult erythrocytes, due to a deficiency of beta-globin chains, is ameliorated by human gamma-globin chains.
Using homologous recombination, both EKLF alleles in murine embryonic stem -LRB- ES -RRB- cells were inactivated.
These EKLF - / - ES cells were capable of undergoing in vitro differentiation to form definitive erythroid colonies that were similar in size and number to those formed by wild-type ES cells.
However, the EKLF - / - colonies were poorly hemoglobinized and enucleated erythrocytes in these colonies contained numerous Heinz bodies.
Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction -LRB- RT-PCR -RRB- analyses revealed that adult and embryonic globin genes were appropriately regulated, with the exception of beta h1-globin, which continued to be expressed at a very low level.
The ratio of adult beta-globin/alpha-globin mRNA in the mutant ES cells was 1/15 of that in wild-type ES cells.
When the EKLF - / - cells were injected into blastocysts, they did not contribute at a detectable level to the mature erythrocyte compartment of the chimeric animals, based on analysis of glucose phosphate isomerase-1 -LRB- GPI-1 -RRB- isozymes and hemoglobins that distinguish ES cell-derived erythrocytes from host blastocyst-derived erythrocytes.
Consistent with this hypothesis, the short life span was ameliorated by introduction into the EKLF - / - ES cells of a human LCR/gamma-globin gene, as evidenced by the presence of ES cell-derived reticulocytes as well as mature erythrocytes in the blood of the chimeric animals.
Inhibition of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 replication in vitro by a novel combination of anti-Tat single-chain intrabodies and NF-kappa B antagonists.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- Tat, an early regulatory protein that is critical for viral gene expression and replication, transactivates the HIV-1 long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- via its binding to the transactivation response element -LRB- TAR -RRB- and, along with other cellular factors, increases viral transcription initiation and elongation.
Tat also superactivates the HIV-1 promoter through a TAR-independent mechanism, including tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced and protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- - dependent activation of NF-kappa B, and inhibitors of Tat and NF-kappa B cooperatively down-regulate this Tat-mediated LTR superactivation.
In this study, a combined pharmacologic and genetic strategy using two PKC -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- inhibitors, pentoxifylline -LRB- PTX -RRB- and Go-6976, and a stably expressed anti-Tat single-chain intracellular antibody -LRB- sFv intrabody -RRB- was employed to obtain cooperative inhibition of both HIV-1 LTR-driven gene expression and HIV-1 replication.
Treatment of cells with PTX and Go-6976 resulted in cooperative inhibition of both HIV-1 LTR-driven gene expression and HIV-1 replication.
In addition, the combined use of anti-Tat sFv intrabodies and the two NF-kappa B inhibitors retained the virus in the latent state for as long as 45 days.
The combined treatment resulted in more durable inhibition of HIV-1 replication than was seen with the NF-kappa B inhibitors alone or the anti-Tat sFv intrabodies alone.
Transcription factor GATA-3 is differentially expressed in murine Th1 and Th2 cells and controls Th2-specific expression of the interleukin-5 gene.
Interleukin-5 -LRB- IL-5 -RRB-, which is produced by CD4 -LRB- + -RRB- T helper 2 -LRB- Th2 -RRB- cells, but not by Th1 cells, plays a key role in the development of eosinophilia in asthma.
We previously established a critical role for the transcription factor GATA-3 in IL-5 promoter activation in EL-4 cells, which express both Th1 - and Th2-type cytokines.
Our studies reported here demonstrate that GATA-3 is critical for expression of the IL-5 gene in bona fide Th2 cells.
Whereas mutations in the GATA-3 site abolished antigen - or cAMP - stimulated IL-5 promoter activation in Th2 cells, ectopic expression of GATA-3 in Th1 cells or in a non-lymphoid, non-IL-5-producing cell line activated the IL-5 promoter.
During the differentiation of naive CD4 -LRB- + -RRB- T cells isolated from T cell receptor transgenic mice, GATA-3 gene expression was up-regulated in developing Th2 cells, but was down-regulated in Th1 cells, and antigen - or cAMP-activated Th2 cells -LRB- but not Th1 cells -RRB- expressed the GATA-3 protein.
Inhibition of GATA-3 activity has therapeutic potential in the treatment of asthma and other hypereosinophilic diseases.
Differential interaction of nuclear factors with the leukocyte-specific pp52 promoter in B and T cells.
The leukocyte-specific, cytoskeleton-binding pp52 -LRB- LSP-1, WP-34 -RRB- protein is widely expressed in multiple leukocyte lineages, including B and T lymphocytes, granulocytes, and macrophages.
We previously detected a tissue-specific promoter preceding the exon encoding the N terminus of the pp52 leukocyte protein.
Here we describe the functional characterization of this promoter and identification of the factors in B and T cells that regulate its activity.
The pp52 promoter contains an initiator specifying the unique 5' terminus of pp52 mRNA, tandem pairs of Ets and SP1 motifs, and a lone C/EBP motif.
All these motifs are essential and collectively control transcriptional activity.
DNA binding studies and Ab supershift assays revealed that different combinations of factors interact with these motifs in B cells vs T cells.
The Ets motifs are preferentially bound by PU-1 in B cell extracts from all stages of development, whereas a different Ets family member reacts with these motifs in T cell extracts.
The C/EBP motif is bound by Ig/EBP -1 in pre-B cell and T cell extracts, but is replaced by nuclear factor-IL-6beta or a nuclear factor-IL-6beta-Ig / EBP-1 heterodimer in plasmacytoma cell extracts.
These findings reveal the features controlling the pp52 promoter in B and T cells and provide the foundation for determining the regulation of this promoter in other leukocyte lineages.
Nuclear levels of NF-kappaB correlate with syncytium-forming capacity of 8e51 cells, expressing a defective HIV virus.
The double NF-kappaB site identified in the LTR of the human immunodeficiency virus-1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- has been demonstrated to be necessary for efficient viral transcription.
In this report we present the characterisation of NF-kappaB subunits engaged in complexes binding to the HIV-1 NF-kappaB site in human 8e51 T-cells, that harbour a defective HIV-1.
At least four different specific NF-kappaB complexes are present in the nucleus of these cells.
With the use of specific antibodies we have determined the composition of each complex using electrophoretic mobility shift assays.
The results show the presence of several NF-kappaB family members, with the transactivating RelA being engaged in multiple complexes.
The importance of NF-kappaB complexes in viral functions has been established comparing the level of NF-kappaB DNA-binding complexes with syncytia-forming activity of 8e51 cells.
In fact, 8e51 cells that had almost lost their syncytia-forming capacity were found to contain at least 10 times less active NF-kappaB DNA-binding complex than the actively fusing cells.
The correlation is specific as the level of at least three other transcription factors did not change.
Interaction of sickle erythrocytes with endothelial cells in the presence of endothelial cell conditioned medium induces oxidant stress leading to transendothelial migration of monocytes.
We showed that the interaction of SS RBC at 2 % concentration in the presence of multimers of von Willebrand factor -LRB- vWf -RRB-, derived from endothelial cell-derived conditioned medium -LRB- E-CM -RRB- with cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells -LRB- HUVEC -RRB-, resulted in a fivefold increased formation of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances -LRB- TBARS -RRB- and activation of the transcription factor NF-kB, both indicators of cellular oxidant stress.
Normal RBC show none of these phenomena.
The oxidant stress-induced signaling resulted in an increased surface expression of a subset of CAMs, ICAM-1, E-selectin, and VCAM-1 in HUVEC.
The addition of oxygen radical scavenger enzymes -LRB- catalase, superoxide dismutase -RRB- and antioxidant -LRB- probucol -RRB- inhibited these events.
Additionally, preincubation of HUVEC with a synthetic peptide Arg-Gly-Asp -LRB- RGD -RRB- that prevents vWf-mediated adhesion of SS RBC reduced the surface expression of VCAM-1 and NF-kB activation.
Furthermore, SS RBC-induced oxidant stress resulted in a twofold increase in the transendothelial migration of both monocyte-like HL-60 cells and human peripheral blood monocytes, and approximately a sixfold increase in platelet-endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- PECAM-1 -RRB- phosphorylation, each of which was blocked by protein kinase C inhibitor and antioxidants.
YM268 increases the glucose uptake, cell differentiation, and mRNA expression of glucose transporter in 3T3-L1 adipocytes.
The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of bis -LSB- 4 - -LSB- 2,4-dioxo-5-thiazolidinyl -RRB- methyl -RSB- phenyl -RSB- methane -LRB- YM-268 -RRB-, a thiazolidinedione derivative, on glucose uptake, adipocyte differentiation through peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma -LRB- PPARgamma -RRB-, and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase -LRB- PI 3-kinase -RRB- activity in cultured cells.
YM268 and pioglitazone dose-dependently increased the 2-deoxyglucose uptake in 3T3-L1 cells.
YM268 facilitated the insulin-stimulated triglyceride accumulation in 3T3-L1 adipocytes and increased the mRNA expression of fatty acid-binding protein.
YM268, with and without insulin, increased the mRNA expression of glucose transporter isoforms such as GLUT1 and GLUT4, indicating enhancement of adipocyte differentiation.
Additionally, YM268 and pioglitazone showed activity of the PPARgamma ligand, a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily responsible for adipogenesis.
Insulin dose-dependently increased the PI-3 ,4,5 - P3 production but YM268 had no significant effect on the insulin-dependent and - independent PI 3-kinase activation.
Transcriptional regulation of the beta-casein gene by cytokines : cross-talk between STAT5 and other signaling molecules.
The beta-casein promoter has been widely used to monitor the activation of STAT -LRB- signal transducer and activator of transcription -RRB- 5 since STAT5 was originally found as a mediator of PRL-inducible beta-casein expression.
However, not only is expression of the beta-casein gene regulated by STAT5 but it is also affected by other molecules such as glucocorticoid and Ras.
In this report, we describe the transcriptional regulation of the beta-casein gene by cytokines in T cells.
We have found that the beta-casein gene is expressed in a cytotoxic T cell line, CTLL-2, in response to interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB-, which activates STAT5.
IL-2-induced beta-casein expression was enhanced by dexamethasone, and this synergistic effect of Dexamethasone requires the sequence between -155 and -193 in the beta-casein promoter.
Coincidentally, a deletion of this region enhanced the IL-2-induced expression of beta-casein.
Expression of an active form of Ras, Ras -LRB- G12V -RRB-, suppressed the IL-2-induced beta-casein and OSM gene expression, and the negative effect of Ras is mediated by the region between -105 and -193 in the beta-casein promoter.
In apparent contradiction, expression of a dominant negative form of Ras, RasN17, also inhibited IL-2-induced activation of the promoter containing the minimal beta-casein STAT5 element as well as the promoters of CIS and OSM.
These results collectively reveal a complex interaction of STAT5 with other signaling pathways and illustrate that regulation of gene expression requires integration of opposing signals.
Tobacco smoke induces coordinate activation of HSF and inhibition of NFkappaB in human monocytes : effects on TNFalpha release.
Tobacco smoke -LRB- TS -RRB- exposure is a major risk factor for human disease, and macrophages of healthy smokers have a depressed capacity to release cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- alpha.
TS induces the synthesis of heat shock -LRB- HS -RRB- / stress proteins -LRB- HSP -RRB-, and, in particular, of Hsp70.
HSF activation has been shown to inhibit NFkappaB.
Thus, we also determined the effects of TS on NFkappaB.
U937 cells and human peripheral blood monocytes were exposed to TS, binding activities of the respective transcription factors were analyzed, and Hsp70 expression and TNFalpha release were determined in parallel.
TS activated HSF, which was associated with Hsp70 overexpression and inhibition of NFkappaB binding activity and TNFalpha release.
Copyright 1998 Academic Press.
Role of IKK1 and IKK2 in lipopolysaccharide signaling in human monocytic cells.
Mononuclear phagocytes play a major role in immune and inflammatory responses.
Bacterial lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- induces monocytes to express a variety of genes by activating the NF-kappaB/Rel transcription factor family.
Recently, we have reported that the tumor necrosis factor and interleukin 1 signaling pathways activate two kinases, IKK1 and IKK2.
Phosphorylation of the IkappaB cytoplasmic inhibitors, IkappaBalpha, IkappaBbeta, and IkappaBepsilon, by these kinases triggers proteolytic degradation and the release of NF-kappaB/Rel proteins into the nucleus.
At present, the role of the IKKs in LPS signaling has not been investigated.
Here, we report that LPS induces IKK activity in human monocytes and THP-1 monocytic cells.
The kinetics of activation of kinase activity in monocytic cells are relatively slow with maximal activity observed at 60 min, which coincides with the degradation of IkappaBs and the nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB.
In transfection experiments, overexpression of wild type IKK1, a dominant negative mutant IKK1 -LRB- K44M -RRB-, or wild type IKK2 did not affect LPS-induced kappaB-dependent transcription in monocytic cells.
In contrast, a dominant negative mutant of IKK2 inhibited LPS induction of kappaB-dependent transcription in a dose-dependent manner.
A nongenomic mechanism for progesterone-mediated immunosuppression : inhibition of K + channels, Ca2 + signaling, and gene expression in T lymphocytes.
Using human T lymphocytes and T cell lines, we show that progesterone, at concentrations found in the placenta, rapidly and reversibly blocks voltage-gated and calcium-activated K + channels -LRB- KV and KCa, respectively -RRB-, resulting in depolarization of the membrane potential.
As a result, Ca2 + signaling and nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NF-AT -RRB- - driven gene expression are inhibited.
Progesterone acts distally to the initial steps of T cell receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- - mediated signal transduction, since it blocks sustained Ca2 + signals after thapsigargin stimulation, as well as oscillatory Ca2 + signals, but not the Ca2 + transient after TCR stimulation.
K + channel blockade by progesterone is specific ; other steroid hormones had little or no effect, although the progesterone antagonist RU 486 also blocked KV and KCa channels.
Progesterone effectively blocked a broad spectrum of K + channels, reducing both Kv1 .3 and charybdotoxin-resistant components of KV current and KCa current in T cells, as well as blocking several cloned KV channels expressed in cell lines.
Progesterone had little or no effect on a cloned voltage-gated Na + channel, an inward rectifier K + channel, or on lymphocyte Ca2 + and Cl - channels.
Decreased IL-12 production and Th1 cell development by acetyl salicylic acid-mediated inhibition of NF-kappaB.
IL-12 is a 75-kDa heterodimeric cytokine composed of two covalently linked p35 and p40 chains.
This pro-inflammatory cytokine plays a prominent role in the development of Th1 cell-mediated immune responses.
Th1 cell-mediated immune responses have been implicated in the pathogenesis of chronic inflammatory autoimmune diseases.
In this study, we investigated the effects of a commonly prescribed anti-inflammatory drug, acetyl salicylic acid -LRB- ASA -RRB-, on IL-12 production and Th1 cell development.
ASA was found to inhibit secretion of the IL-12 heterodimer as well as p40 monomer by human monocytic cells.
This was associated with the down-regulation of IL-12p40 mRNA expression.
Analysis of the regulation of the p40 gene promoter revealed that ASA inhibited NF-kappaB activation and binding to the p40-kappaB site in the p40 promoter, leading to transcriptional repression of the p40 gene.
Addition of ASA to an in vitro T helper cell differentiation system, at concentrations compatible with plasma levels reached during anti-inflammatory therapy, resulted in reduced development of Th1 cells.
Effects of overexpression of IL-1 receptor-associated kinase on NFkappaB activation, IL-2 production and stress-activated protein kinases in the murine T cell line EL4.
The association and activation of the IL-1 receptor-associated protein kinase -LRB- IRAK -RRB- to the IL-1 receptor complex is one of the earliest events detectable in IL-1 signal transduction.
We generated permanent clones of the murine T cell line EL4 6.1 overexpressing human -LRB- h -RRB- IRAK to evaluate the role of this kinase in IL-1 signaling.
Overexpression of hIRAK enhanced IL-1-stimulated activation of the transcription factor NFkappaB, whereas a truncated form -LRB- N-IRAK -RRB- specifically inhibited IL-1-dependent NFkappaB activity.
In clones stably overexpressing hIRAK a weak constitutive activation of NFkappaB correlated with a low basal IL-2 production which was enhanced in an IL-1-dependent manner.
Compared to the parental cell line the dose-response curve of IL-1-induced IL-2 production was shifted in both potency and efficacy.
These results demonstrate that IRAK directly triggers NFkappaB-mediated gene expression in EL4 cells.
Cloning of ARE-containing genes by AU-motif-directed display.
A procedure suitable for cloning labile mRNAs that contain AU motifs is presented -LRB- AU-DD -RRB-.
These motifs are regulatory sequences within the so-called AU-rich elements -LRB- AREs -RRB- often found in 3' untranslated regions of genes such as cytokines, proto-oncogenes, and transcription factors.
AU-DD is an AU-motif-directed differential display that permits the identification of ARE-containing genes differentially expressed after cell activation.
It has been applied to peripheral blood monocytes and a T cell clone to isolate 59 cDNA fragments associated to activation.
Fourteen percent of isolated fragments belong to already known genes that certainly are cytokines and transduction/transcription factors.
The remaining 86 % correspond to unknown genes of which 92 % have been confirmed to be differentially expressed.
Copyright 1998 Academic Press.
Membrane-associated lymphotoxin on natural killer cells activates endothelial cells via an NF-kappaB-dependent pathway.
BACKGROUND : Inhibition of complement in small animal models of xenotransplantation has demonstrated graft infiltration with natural killer -LRB- NK -RRB- cells and monocytes associated with endothelial cell -LRB- EC -RRB- activation.
We have previously demonstrated that human NK cells activate porcine EC in vitro, which results in adhesion molecule expression and cytokine secretion.
In this study, we used the NK cell line NK92 to define the molecular and cellular basis of NK cell-mediated EC activation.
METHODS : EC were transfected with either reporter constructs containing the luciferase gene driven either by E-selectin or interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -8 promoters or a synthetic NF-kappaB-dependent promoter.
In addition, a dominant-negative mutant tumor necrosis factor receptor I -LRB- TNFRI -RRB- expression vector was co-transfected in inhibition studies.
Forty-eight hours after transfection, EC were stimulated with NK cells or NK cell membrane extracts for 7 hr and activation was measured by a luciferase assay.
RESULTS : Co-culture of NK cells with transfected EC enhanced E-selectin, IL-8, and NF-kappaB-dependent promoter activity.
NK cell membrane extracts retained the capacity to activate EC and induced nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB -LRB- p50 and p65 -RRB-.
Western blotting of NK cell and membrane extracts detected the presence of Lymphotoxin-alpha -LRB- LTalpha -RRB- but not tumor necrosis factor-alpha.
Furthermore, LTalpha was secreted in NK : EC co-cultures.
Co-transfection with dominant-negative mutant TNFRI inhibited EC activation by NK cell membrane extracts and by NK cells by 80 % and 47 %, respectively.
The same pattern of inhibition was observed using anti-human LT sera.
CONCLUSIONS : Human NK cell membrane-bound LT signals across species via TNFRI, leading to NF-kappaB nuclear translocation and transcription of E-selectin and IL-8, which results in EC activation.
Regulation of NF-kappa B, AP-1, NFAT, and STAT1 nuclear import in T lymphocytes by noninvasive delivery of peptide carrying the nuclear localization sequence of NF-kappa B p50.
Activation of T lymphocytes by Ags or cytokines results in translocation of the transcription factors NF-kappa B, AP-1, NFAT, and STAT from the cytoplasm into the nucleus.
The first step in the nuclear import process is recognition of a nuclear localization sequence -LRB- NLS -RRB- within the karyophilic protein by a cytoplasmic receptor such as the importin -LRB- karyopherin -RRB- - alpha subunit.
The NLSs of NF-kappa B, AP-1, and NFAT differ and the NLS of STAT1 has not yet been identified.
Herein we demonstrate that the inducible nuclear import of NF-kappa B, AP-1, NFAT, and STAT1 in Jurkat T lymphocytes is significantly inhibited by a cell-permeable peptide carrying the NLS of the NF-kappa B p50 subunit.
NLS peptide-mediated disruption of the nuclear import of these transcription factors results in inhibition of I kappa B alpha and IL-2 gene expression, processes dependent on NF-kappa B or the combination of NF-kappa B, AP-1, and NFAT.
Further, we show that inhibitory NLS peptide interacts in vitro with a cytoplasmic NLS receptor complex comprised of the Rch1/importin -LRB- karyopherin -RRB- - beta heterodimer expressed in Jurkat T cells.
Signaling pathways mediated by the TNF - and cytokine-receptor families target a common cis-element of the IFN regulatory factor 1 promoter.
CD40 activation of B cells is strongly influenced by the presence of cytokines.
IFN regulatory factor 1 -LRB- IRF-1 -RRB- is a transcription factor activated by either CD40 or cytokines.
We have found that these different sets of signals target a common cis-acting element in the promoter of this gene, the IRF-1 gamma-activated site -LRB- GAS -RRB-.
Targeting of the IRF-1 GAS is not confined to activation via CD40 but extends to other stimuli that mimic the CD40 signaling cascade, like TNF-alpha and EBV.
In this system, simultaneous exposure to CD40L together with either IL-4 or IFN-gamma does not lead to the activation of novel Rel/STAT complexes.
TAL1 and LIM-only proteins synergistically induce retinaldehyde dehydrogenase 2 expression in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia by acting as cofactors for GATA3.
Previously, we have shown that TAL1 and the LIM-only protein gene -LRB- LMO -RRB- are regularly coactivated in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia -LRB- T-ALL -RRB-.
To understand the molecular mechanisms of functional synergy between TAL1 and LMO in tumorigenesis and transcriptional regulation, we tried to identify downstream target genes regulated by TAL1 and LMO by a subtractive PCR method.
One of the isolated genes, that for retinaldehyde dehydrogenase 2 -LRB- RALDH2 -RRB-, was regularly expressed in most of the T-ALL cell lines that coexpressed TAL1 and LMO.
Exogenously transfected TAL1 and LMO, but not either alone, induced RALDH2 expression in a T-ALL cell line, HPB-ALL, not expressing endogeneous TAL1 or LMO.
The RALDH2 transcripts in T-ALL were, however, mostly initiated within the second intron.
Promoter analysis revealed that a GATA site in a cryptic promoter in the second intron was essential and sufficient for the TAL1 - and LMO-dependent transcriptional activation, and GATA3 binds to this site.
In addition, forced expression of GATA3 potentiated the induction of RALDH2 by TAL1 and LMO, and these three factors formed a complex in vivo.
Furthermore, a TAL1 mutant not binding to DNA also activated the transcription of RALDH2 in the presence of LMO and GATA3.
Collectively, we have identified the RALDH2 gene as a first example of direct transcriptional target genes regulated by TAL1 and LMO in T-ALL.
In this case, TAL1 and LMO act as cofactors for GATA3 to activate the transcription of RALDH2.
Transcription factor NF-kappaB regulation of renal fibrosis during ureteral obstruction.
Irrespective of the etiology, many kidney diseases result in inflammation and fibrosis of the tubulointerstitium, with the subsequent loss of renal function.
To initiate any disease process or for any disease process to progress, there must be changes in the transcription of genes within the affected tissue.
The nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- family of transcription factors regulates genes involved in inflammation, cell proliferation, and cell differentiation.
This review discusses the NF-kappaB transcription factor family in general and the association of NF-kappaB activation with cellular/molecular events of renal inflammation and fibrosis.
Differential effects of protein kinase C inhibitors on fibronectin-induced interleukin-beta gene transcription, protein synthesis and secretion in human monocytic cells.
Human monocytic cells express interleukin-1beta -LRB- IL-1beta -RRB- when stimulated with the extracellular matrix glycoprotein, fibronectin -LRB- FN -RRB-.
We performed an analysis of the mechanisms by which two PKC inhibitors, Calphostin C and Staurosporine, prevent the FN-induced IL-1beta response.
Both inhibitors blocked the secretion of IL-1beta protein into the media of peripheral blood mononuclear cells exposed to FN.
Immunoprecipitation analysis revealed that under these circumstances, Calphostin C inhibited the production of IL-1beta protein, whereas Staurosporine allowed protein production, but inhibited its secretion.
To determine the mechanisms responsible for these differences, we turned to human U937 promonocytic cells.
U937 cells transfected with the human full-length IL-1beta promoter connected to a luciferase reporter gene were submitted to transcription assays, Northern blotting, and DNA electrophoresis mobility gel shift assays.
These studies revealed that Calphostin C inhibited the nuclear translocation of the transcription factor activator protein-1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB- which is considered necessary for FN induction of IL-1beta gene transcription, and prevented the transcription of the IL-1beta gene.
In contrast, Staurosporine alone induced AP-1 translocation and stimulation of the gene.
Based on the high specificity of this compound for PKC, we conclude that PKC is necessary for FN-induced IL-1beta protein production.
Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor activates a 72-kDa isoform of STAT3 in human neutrophils.
Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor -LRB- G-CSF -RRB- signaling involves activation of STATs, proteins that serve the dual function of signal transduction and activation of transcription.
We previously demonstrated that G-CSF activated a distinct Stat3-like protein in immature and mature normal myeloid cells, StatG.
StatG in normal immature human myeloid cells, i.e. adult CD34 + bone marrow cells, was composed of Stat3beta.
This investigation was undertaken to determine the composition of StatG in mature normal human myeloid cells, i.e. polymorphonuclear neutrophilic granulocytes -LRB- PMN -RRB-.
These studies revealed that the major protein in extracts of PMN activated by G-CSF to bind the high-affinity serum-inducible element -LRB- hSIE -RRB- is a 72-kDa protein that cross-reacts with Stat3 monoclonal antibody, which we have designated Stat3gamma.
Stat3gamma is derived from Stat3alpha by limited proteolysis and lacks the carboxyl-terminal portion of Stat3alpha.
Tpl-2 induces IL-2 expression in T-cell lines by triggering multiple signaling pathways that activate NFAT and NF-kappaB.
The Tpl-2 kinase activates the nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB- and induces IL-2 expression in T-cell lines.
Here we show that the activation of the IL-2 promoter by Tpl-2 is inhibited by mutant signaling molecules that inhibit the mitogen-activated protein kinase -LRB- MAPK -RRB- or the calcineurin/NFAT pathways and is promoted by combinations of signaling molecules that activate these pathways.
We, therefore, conclude that signals generated by the convergence of the MAPK and the calcineurin/NFAT pathway are necessary and sufficient for the activation of the IL-2 promoter by Tpl-2.
The activation of both the IL-2 promoter and an NFAT-driven minimal promoter were shown to depend on signals transduced by Raf1.
However, it was only the IL-2 promoter whose activation by Tpl-2 was fully blocked by the dominant negative mutant MEK1S218/222A and the MEK1/MEK2 inhibitor PD098059.
Experiments in COS-1 and EL-4 cells confirmed both hypotheses and revealed that the second factor activated by Tpl-2 is NF-kappaB.
Both pathways were fully blocked by Bcl-2 or Bcl-X -LRB- L -RRB-.
Activation of human macrophages by mechanical ventilation in vitro.
Positive-pressure mechanical ventilation supports gas exchange in patients with respiratory failure but is also responsible for significant lung injury.
In this study, we have developed an in vitro model in which isolated lung cells can be submitted to a prolonged cyclic pressure-stretching strain resembling that of conventional mechanical ventilation.
In this model, cells cultured on a Silastic membrane were elongated up to 7 % of their initial diameter, corresponding to a 12 % increase in cell surface.
The lung macrophage was identified as the main cellular source for critical inflammatory mediators such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha, the chemokines interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -8 and -6, and matrix metalloproteinase-9 in this model system of mechanical ventilation.
These mediators were measured in supernatants from ventilated alveolar macrophages, monocyte-derived macrophages, and promonocytic THP-1 cells.
Nuclear factor-kappaB was found to be activated in ventilated macrophages.
Dexamethasone prevented IL-8 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha secretion in ventilated macrophages.
Mechanical ventilation induced low levels of IL-8 secretion by alveolar type II-like cells.
Other lung cell types such as endothelial cells, bronchial cells, and fibroblasts failed to produce IL-8 in response to a prolonged cyclic pressure-stretching load.
This model is of particular value for exploring physical stress-induced signaling pathways, as well as for testing the effects of novel ventilatory strategies or adjunctive substances aimed at modulating cell activation induced by mechanical ventilation.
Stat6 inhibits human interleukin-4 promoter activity in T cells.
The differentiation of naive T-helper -LRB- Th -RRB- cells into cytokine-secreting effector Th cells requires exposure to multiple signals, including exogenous cytokines.
Interleukin-4 -LRB- IL-4 -RRB- plays a major role in this process by promoting the differentiation of IL-4-secreting Th2 cells.
In Th2 cells, IL-4 gene expression is tightly controlled at the level of transcription by the coordinated binding of multiple transcription factors to regulatory elements in the proximal promoter region.
Nuclear factor of activated T cell -LRB- NFAT -RRB- family members play a critical role in regulating IL-4 transcription and interact with up to five sequences -LRB- termed P0 through P4 -RRB- in the IL-4 promoter.
We report here that Stat6 interacts with three binding sites in the human IL-4 promoter by electrophoretic mobility shift assays.
These sites overlap the P1, P2, and P4 NFAT elements.
To investigate the role of Stat6 in regulating IL-4 transcription, we used Stat6-deficient Jurkat T cells with different intact IL-4 promoter constructs in cotransfection assays.
We show that, whereas a multimerized response element from the germline IgE promoter was highly induced by IL-4 in Stat6-expressing Jurkat cells, the intact human IL-4 promoter was repressed under similar conditions.
We conclude that the function of Stat6 is highly dependent on promoter context and that this factor promotes IL-4 gene expression in an indirect manner.
Interleukin-10 and transforming growth factor-beta promoter polymorphisms in allergies and asthma.
Interleukin-10 -LRB- IL-10 -RRB- and transforming growth factor beta -LRB- TGF-beta -RRB- are inhibitory for B and T cells, IgE production, and mast cell proliferation, and they induce apoptosis in eosinophils.
DNA taken from families with an asthmatic proband was examined for base exchanges by single-stranded conformational polymorphism -LRB- SSCP -RRB-.
We demonstrated the presence of a polymorphism in the promoter region of the IL-10 gene and four in the TGF-beta gene promoters -LRB- 3 in TGF-beta1 and 1 in TGF-beta2 -RRB-.
The IL-10 gene polymorphism was a C-to-A exchange 571 base pairs upstream from the translation start site and was present between consensus binding sequences for Sp1 and elevated total serum.
This polymorphism was associated with elevated total serum IgE in subjects heterozygotic or homozygotic for this base exchange -LRB- p < 0.009 -RRB-.
The base exchange at -509 -LRB- from the transcription initiation site -RRB- in the TGF-beta promoter also linked to elevated total IgE -LRB- p < 0.01 -RRB-.
This polymorphism represented a C-to-T base exchange which induced a YY1 consensus sequence and is present in a region of the promoter associated with negative transcription regulation.
Epithelial cell-initiated inflammation plays a crucial role in early tissue damage in amebic infection of human intestine.
BACKGROUND & AIMS : Entamoeba histolytica infection of the intestine can induce severe gut inflammation.
The aims of this study were to assess the role of the host inflammatory response in the tissue damage observed with amebiasis and the role of the intestinal epithelial cell in initiating that response.
METHODS : E. histolytica infection was established in human intestinal xenografts in severe combined immunodeficient -LRB- SCID-HU-INT -RRB- mice.
Human intestinal epithelial cell inflammatory responses to amebic infection were inhibited by the intraluminal administration of an antisense oligonucleotide to the human p65 subunit of nuclear factor kappaB, and the role of neutrophils in tissue damage observed with amebiasis was studied by depleting neutrophils from SCID-HU-INT mice.
RESULTS : Administration of the antisense oligonucleotide blocked the production of human interleukin 1beta and interleukin 8 by intestinal epithelial cells and inhibited neutrophil influx into the E. histolytica-infected intestinal xenografts.
Inhibition of the gut inflammatory response by the antisense oligonucleotide or the depletion of neutrophils from SCID-HU - INT mice blocked the increase in intestinal permeability observed with amebic infection.
CONCLUSIONS : Intestinal epithelial cells initiate an inflammatory response with resulting neutrophil-mediated tissue damage in response to E. histolytica infection ; this inflammatory cascade can be blocked by inhibiting the transcription of genes regulated by nuclear factor kappaB.
In vitro suppression of programmed cell death of B cells by tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1.
In this study, a series of Burkitt 's lymphoma -LRB- BL -RRB- cell lines were assayed for their expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases -LRB- TIMP -RRB- -1.
TIMP-1 suppression of PCD is not due to metalloproteinase inhibition, as reduction and alkylation of the TIMP-1 did not abolish this activity.
Retroviral induction of TIMP-1 not only resulted in cell survival but also in continued DNA synthesis for up to 5 d in the absence of serum, while controls underwent apoptosis.
This resistance to apoptosis is reversed by anti-TIMP-1 antibodies, demonstrating that secreted TIMP-1 is active in blocking apoptosis.
Furthermore, TIMP-1 upregulation induced expression of Bcl-XL but not Bcl-2 as well as decreased NF-kappaB activity as compared with controls.
Interleukin-12 expression in B cells by transformation with Epstein-Barr virus.
To address this issue, we have investigated IL-12 expression in B cells during in vitro transformation with EBV.
Human peripheral B cells became capable of constitutively producing p40 by in vitro transformation with EBV, coincident with the expression of latent membrane protein 1 -LRB- LMP1 -RRB- of EBV.
These B cells expressed p40 and p35 mRNA, and phorbol myristate acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- stimulation strongly enhanced p40 and p70 production.
Furthermore, transfection with LMP1 expression vector into a human B lymphoma cell line, Daudi, led to p40 production with nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappaB activation.
Copyright 1998 Academic Press.
Anaphylatoxins C5a and C3a induce nuclear factor kappaB activation in human peripheral blood monocytes.
The anaphylatoxins C5a and C3a are involved in the regulation of cytokine production.
In this study the capability of C5a and C3a to induce transcription factor activation was examined.
C5a and C3a stimulation of human peripheral blood monocytes resulted in nuclear expression of a DNA binding activity with specificity to the kappaB sequence.
The p50 and p65 proteins, constituents of the prototypic nuclear factor kappaB, were identified as components of the DNA-protein complexes by anti-peptide antibodies in gel supershift assays.
C5a induced kappaB binding activity was detected 15 min after agonist stimulation, peaked at 30-40 min, and remained detectable at 2 h..
Binding to kappaB sequence was accompanied by an initial decrease and subsequent increase in the cytoplasmic IkappaBalpha levels, as detected by Western blotting using an anti-IkappaBalpha antibody.
Pertussis toxin treatment markedly decreased kappaB binding activities induced by both C5a and C3a, whereas cholera toxin displayed no inhibitory effect.
Neither of the two toxins affected kappaB binding activity induced by TNFalpha in the same cells.
Activation of the human delta-globin gene promoter in primary adult erythroid cells.
Restoration of the CCAAT box or insertion of an erythroid Kruppel-like factor -LRB- EKLF -RRB- binding site in the delta promoter activates its expression in several erythroid cell lines.
We extended these studies using a novel primary human adult erythroid cell -LRB- hAEC -RRB- system to investigate these effects at the late erythroblast stage.
Restoration of the CCAAT box at -70 bp, or insertion of an EKLF binding site at -85 bp or -95 bp in the promoter significantly increased delta globin gene expression in hAEC.
Our results demonstrate that the altered CCAAT box -LRB- CCAAC -RRB- and the lack of an EKLF binding site in delta-globin contribute to its low level of expression in the hAEC model as well.
Interactions between the class II transactivator and CREB binding protein increase transcription of major histocompatibility complex class II genes.
Class II major histocompatibility -LRB- class II -RRB- genes are regulated in a B-cell-specific and gamma interferon-inducible fashion.
The master switch for the expression of these genes is the class II transactivator -LRB- CIITA -RRB-.
In this report, we demonstrate that one of the functions of CIITA is to recruit the CREB binding protein -LRB- CBP -RRB- to class II promoters.
Not only functional but also specific binding interactions between CIITA and CBP were demonstrated.
Moreover, a dominant negative form of CBP decreased the activity of class II promoters and levels of class II determinants on the surface of cells.
Finally, the inhibition of class II gene expression by the glucocorticoid hormone could be attributed to the squelching of CBP by the glucocorticoid receptor.
We conclude that CBP, a histone acetyltransferase, plays an important role in the transcription of class II genes.
Nuclear factor of activated T cells and AP-1 are insufficient for IL-2 promoter activation : requirement for CD28 up-regulation of RE/AP.
IL-2 gene transcription in T cells requires both TCR and costimulatory signals.
IL-2 promoter activation in Jurkat T cells stimulated with superantigen presented by Raji B cells requires CD28 activation.
The addition of rCTLA4Ig, which blocks CD28 binding to its ligand, to the cultures decreased IL-2 promoter activation by > 80 %.
Interestingly, CTLA4Ig did not significantly inhibit the activation of either NF of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB- or AP-1 reporters.
Therefore, activation of NFAT and AP-1 is insufficient for IL-2 promoter activation.
In contrast, an RE/AP reporter was blocked by CTLA4Ig by > 90 %.
Phenylarsine oxide inhibits ex vivo HIV-1 expression.
Phenylarsine oxide -LRB- PAO -RRB-, which is described as an inhibitor of tyrosine phosphatase activity, inhibits H2O2 release from human peripheral blood mononuclear cells -LRB- PBMCs -RRB- as measured by electrochemistry.
Since human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- replication is known to be favored under oxidative stress conditions, ex vivo experiments using uninfected PBMCs, primary monocytes or a latently infected promonocytic U1 cell line show that HIV-1 replication and reactivation, monitored by p24 antigen measurement, are inhibited by PAO in a time - and concentration-dependent manner.
These observations can be linked with the inhibition of NF-kappa B activation when uninfected monocytes are induced by either tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- or lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-.
The involvement of multiple tumor necrosis factor receptor -LRB- TNFR -RRB- - associated factors in the signaling mechanisms of receptor activator of NF-kappaB, a member of the TNFR superfamily.
Receptor activator of NF-kappaB -LRB- RANK -RRB- is a recently identified member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily and is expressed on activated T cells and dendritic cells.
Its cognate ligand -LRB- RANKL -RRB- plays significant roles in the activation of dendritic cell function and osteoclast differentiation.
We demonstrate here the interaction of RANK with tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors -LRB- TRAFs -RRB- 1, 2, 3, 5, and 6 both in vitro and in cells.
Mapping of the structural requirements for TRAF/RANK interaction revealed multiple TRAF binding sites clustered in two distinct domains in the RANK cytoplasmic tail.
These TRAF binding domains were shown to be functionally important for the RANK-dependent induction of NF-kappaB and c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase activities.
Site-directed mutagenesis demonstrated that these TRAF binding sites exhibited selective binding for different TRAF proteins.
In particular, TRAF6 interacted with membrane-proximal determinants distinct from those binding TRAFs 1, 2, 3, and 5.
When this membrane-proximal TRAF6 interaction domain was deleted, RANK-mediated NF-kappaB signaling was completely inhibited while c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase activation was partially inhibited.
An NH2-terminal truncation mutant of TRAF6 inhibited RANKL-mediated NF-kappaB activation, but failed to affect constitutive signaling induced by receptor overexpression, revealing a selective role for TRAF6 in ligand-induced activation events.
The control of lytic replication of Epstein-Barr virus in B lymphocytes -LRB- Review -RRB-.
Uncontrolled replication of a virus, which is harmful to the host is also disadvantageous to the virus.
Most viruses can not compete with the various immune mechanisms and become eliminated in the course of infection.
Therefore, only the time between infection and eradication remains for these viruses to proliferate.
A few viruses, like the Herpesviruses or the papillomaviruses, however, have developed a sophisticated strategy for persisting lifelong, usually asymptomatically in the host, hiding from the immune system and producing infectious progeny at the same time.
This strategy depends on a separation of latency and the lytic replication, either by time due to differentiation-dependent mechanisms or by spatial separation as the result of different host cell types.
Both are true for the Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB-.
B cells and epithelial cells have a pivotal role in the life cycle of the virus.
However, replication of EBV in vivo is controlled primarily by host immune mechanisms selecting for cells that are not permissive for viral replication as the result of a particular set of transcription factors.
These factors control the activity of the regulatory immediate-early genes and, in addition, lytic and latent cycle regulatory genes negatively interfere with each other and thus link cellular and viral gene regulatory mechanisms.
Human immunodeficiency virus type-1 transcription : role of the 5' - untranslated leader region -LRB- review -RRB-.
Human immunodeficiency virus type-1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- transcription is dependent on the interaction of host-cell transcription factors with cis-regulatory DNA elements within the viral long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB-.
Much attention has focused on the series of sequence elements upstream of the transcriptional initiation site in the U3 region of the LTR including the Sp1 and NF-kappaB binding sites.
Recent studies, however, demonstrate that the transcribed 5' - untranslated leader region -LRB- 5' - UTR -RRB- also contains important transcriptional elements.
These regulatory elements situated downstream of transcription interact with constitutive and inducible transcription factors, mediate transmission of cellular activation signals, and are important for efficient HIV-1 transcription and replication.
The 5' - UTR contains binding sites for the transcription factors AP-1, NF-kappaB, NF-AT, IRF, and Sp1.
Mutations in these binding sites can interfere with the viral response to cell activation signals, decrease LTR transcription, and inhibit viral replication.
The 5' - UTR also interacts with a specific nucleosome that is rapidly displaced during transcriptional activation of the latent provirus.
In this review, we describe the host-cell transcription factors that interact with the 5' - UTR and discuss their role in the transcriptional regulation of HIV-1 gene expression.
Molecular cloning of FKHRL1P2, a member of the developmentally regulated fork head domain transcription factor family.
Here we report the expression of a fork head domain protein in human T helper cells.
We cloned and characterized a fork head cDNA from human T helper cell mRNA using differential display RT-PCR.
The cDNA contains a 546-nucleotide -LRB- nt -RRB- open reading frame -LRB- ORF -RRB- that codes for the carboxyl-terminal 180 amino acids -LRB- aa -RRB- of the recently identified fkhrl1 gene.
This ORF does not contain the characteristic DNA-binding domain found in members of the forkhead protein family.
In-vitro transcription/translation of this cDNA expressed a protein of approximately 20 kDa.
We have generated antibodies that specifically immunoprecipitated the in-vitro-translated 20-kDa protein.
This antibody also recognizes in human T lymphocytes a 70-kDa protein corresponding in size to that predicted for the fkhrl1 gene product.
The mRNA levels for fkhrl1 is elevated in T helper-induced lymphocytes in comparison to PHA-stimulated T lymphocytes.
Mildly oxidized low-density lipoproteins decrease early production of interleukin 2 and nuclear factor kappaB binding to DNA in activated T-lymphocytes.
Activated T-lymphocytes are found early in atherosclerosis lesions, but little is known about their role.
Oxidized low-density lipoproteins -LRB- oxLDLs -RRB- are considered to be involved in the pathogenesis of the lesions, and we have previously demonstrated that oxLDLs inhibit not only interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -2 - receptor expression on the surface of in vitro-activated T-lymphocytes but also their proliferation.
We have now investigated the effect of oxLDLs on blast differentiation, on IL-2 synthesis and on the activation of the nuclear factor kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- system in activated lymphocytes.
Mildly oxLDLs -LRB- 50 and 100 microgram/ml -RRB- decreased the number of lymphoblasts and the level of IL-2 concentration in the culture supernatants after activation of lymphocytes by phytohaemagglutinin and PMA + ionomycin.
The inhibition of IL-2 production was observed in the CD3 -LRB- + -RRB- T-lymphocyte cytoplasm as early as 4 h after activation by PMA + ionomycin.
The study of NF-kappaB showed that oxLDLs led to a decrease of activation-induced p65/p50 NF-kappaB heterodimer binding to DNA, whereas the presence of the constitutive nuclear form of p50 dimer was unchanged.
This was correlated with an unchanged level of the active form of the cytosolic inhibitor protein IkappaB-alpha.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 tax protein abrogates interleukin-2 dependence in a mouse T-cell line.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 -LRB- HTLV-1 -RRB- is the etiologic agent of adult T-cell leukemia.
We examined the effect of Tax activity on the growth of the interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- - dependent T-cell line CTLL-2.
Stable expression of Tax in CTLL-2 transformed cell growth from being IL-2 dependent to IL-2 independent.
Tax stimulated transcription through NF-kappaB and the cyclic AMP-responsive element-like sequence in the HTLV-1 promoter.
However, both pathways were necessary for another transformation-related activity -LRB- colony formation in soft agar -RRB- of CTLL-2 / Tax.
Characterization of the human elk-1 promoter.
To characterize the human elk-1 promoter, we mapped the transcriptional start site and isolated elk-1-specific genomic phage clones that contained extensive upstream and downstream sequences.
A TATA-like motif was identified immediately upstream of the transcriptional start site.
Sequences upstream and downstream from the TATA box were found to contribute to elk-1 promoter activity.
A second hypersensitive site -LRB- HS 2 -RRB- was identified within the first intron in pre-monocytic cells, which express Elk-1 only when differentiating to monocytes.
Egr-1 and the serum response factor were found to interact specifically with the intronic sequence at +265 and +448, respectively.
Regulation of interleukin-1beta transcription by Epstein-Barr virus involves a number of latent proteins via their interaction with RBP.
Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- infects B cells, resulting in the outgrowth of immortalised lymphoblastoid cell lines -LRB- LCLs -RRB-.
Here, we demonstrate through the use of intracellular staining that interleukin-1beta -LRB- IL-1beta -RRB- is expressed in LCLs and investigate the influence of the individual latent proteins on the expression of IL-1beta.
Using RT-PCR, IL-1beta was shown to be up-regulated in EBV-transformed LCLs as well as in group III Burkitt 's lymphoma -LRB- BL -RRB- cell lines, compared with group I BL cell lines.
The up-regulation of IL-1beta message could be mediated by the latent membrane protein-1, EBV nuclear proteins 2, 3, 4, and 6 genes.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays -LRB- EMSAs -RRB- demonstrated that the -300 region of the IL-1beta promoter, which contains a nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- binding site, contained a functional RBP binding site.
In group I BL cells, containing low levels of NF-kappaB, only RBP binding was observed in EMSAs, whereas NF-kappaB binding could be demonstrated in EBV-transformed B cell lines containing high levels of activated NF-kappaB.
In addition, the expression of latent membrane protein-1 led to activation of NF-kappaB that was capable of binding the IL-1beta promoter.
Copyright 1998 Academic Press.
Reactivation of Kaposi 's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus infection from latency by expression of the ORF 50 transactivator, a homolog of the EBV R protein.
Kaposi 's sarcoma -LRB- KS -RRB- - associated herpesvirus -LRB- KSHV -RRB-, or human herpesvirus 8, is a lymphotropic virus strongly linked to several AIDS-related neoplasms.
Here we show that deregulated expression of a single viral gene, ORF 50, which encodes a transactivator able to selectively upregulate delayed-early viral genes, suffices to disrupt latency and induce the lytic gene cascade in latently infected B cells.
The identification of this gene opens the way to studies of the physiologic mechanisms controlling reactvation of KSHV from latency.
Copyright 1998 Academic Press.
X-rays-induced secretion of cellular factor -LRB- s -RRB- that enhance -LRB- s -RRB- HIV-1 promoter transcription in various non-irradiated transfected cell lines.
Various cellular stress agents like ionizing radiation exposure could activate human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV - 1 -RRB- replication or reporter gene expression.
In the present report we show that in various transiently or stably transfected cell lines, X-ray irradiation up-regulates HIV-1 LTR transcription through the kappaB regulatory elements.
A factor -LRB- s -RRB-, which is processed by and acts upon a variety of cell types, was detected by addition to non-irradiated cells of either X-ray-treated cells or a conditioned medium taken from irradiated cultures.
The magnitude of responsiveness is cell type dependent.
In addition, X-ray activation of HIV-1 LTR in transiently or stably transfected cell lines is inhibited by a potent antioxidant drug, pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate and by another drug, known for its role in the trapping of growth factors, suramin.
The importance of these observations in the pathophysiology of patients with AIDS-related cancers treated by radiotherapy remains to be established.
Regulation of fas-ligand expression during activation-induced cell death in T lymphocytes via nuclear factor kappaB.
T cell receptor engagement activates transcription factors important for cytokine gene regulation.
Additionally, this signaling pathway also leads to activation-induced apoptosis in T lymphocytes that is dependent on FasL transcription and expression.
Here we demonstrate that nuclear factor kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB-, which is involved in the transcriptional regulation of many cytokine genes expressed in activated lymphocytes, also plays a role in T cell activation-induced FasL expression.
Inhibition of NF-kappaB activity in a T cell hybridoma leads to decreased FasL expression and apoptosis upon T cell receptor stimulation.
We identified the NF-kappaB site in the FasL promoter that contributes to such regulation.
Co-expression of p65 -LRB- Rel A -RRB- with the FasL promoter enhanced its activity, and co-expression of IkappaB dramatically inhibited the inducible promoter activity.
In contrast, the transcription factor AP-1 is not required for activation-induced FasL promoter activity.
These results define a role for NF-kappaB in mediating FasL expression during T cell activation.
Interleukin-10 stabilizes inhibitory kappaB-alpha in human monocytes.
Interleukin-10 -LRB- IL-10 -RRB- protects animals from lethal endotoxemia.
This beneficial effect is mediated, in part, by inhibition of inflammatory cytokine production, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB-.
NF-kappaB activation in response to inflammatory signals is dependent upon degradation of its associated inhibitory peptide, inhibitory kappaB-alpha -LRB- IkappaB-alpha -RRB-.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of IL-10 on lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- - induced human monocyte TNF-alpha production, NF-kappaB activation, and IkappaB-alpha degradation.
Monocytes were isolated from human donors.
Cells were stimulated with endotoxin -LRB- LPS, 100 ng/mL -RRB- with and without human IL-10 -LRB- 10 ng/mL -RRB-.
Following stimulation, TNF-alpha was measured in cell supernatants by ELISA, NF-kappaB activity by electrophoretic mobility shift assay, and IkappaB-alpha levels by Western blot.
We observed that after LPS stimulation of human monocytes, TNF-alpha increased to 798 + / -67 pg/mL -LRB- p < .001 versus control -RRB-.
IL-10 attenuated LPS-stimulated TNF-alpha production -LRB- 297 + / -54 ; p < .001 versus LPS alone -RRB-.
After LPS stimulation in human monocytes, IkappaB-alpha protein levels decreased, and NF-kappaB DNA binding increased.
IL-10 pretreatment prevented LPS-induced decreases in IkappaB-alpha protein levels and attenuated NF-kappaB DNA binding.
Role of Egr-2 in up-regulation of Fas ligand in normal T cells and aberrant double-negative lpr and gld T cells.
We previously identified a Fas ligand regulatory element -LRB- FLRE -RRB- in the Fas ligand -LRB- fasL -RRB- promoter that binds Egr family proteins and demonstrated that Egr-3 -LRB- PILOT -RRB- but not Egr-1 -LRB- NGFI-A, Krox-24, Tis-8, and Zif-268 -RRB- induces transcription of fasL.
The aberrant CD4 -LRB- - -RRB- CD8 -LRB- - -RRB- T cells from lpr/lpr and gld/gld mice, which have mutations in the genes encoding Fas and FasL, respectively, have an activated phenotype and constitutively express high levels of fasL mRNA, prompting us to ask what role if any the FLRE and Egr family proteins have in this aberrant expression of fasL.
Unstimulated MRL-lpr/lpr and C3H-gld/gld CD4 -LRB- - -RRB- CD8 -LRB- - -RRB- T cells constitutively contained high levels of two proteins that bound to the FLRE.
Supershift analysis revealed these proteins to be Egr-1 and Egr-2 -LRB- Krox-20 -RRB- ; Egr-3 was not detected.
Activation of normal lymph node cells resulted in increased expression of Egr-1, -2, and -3.
As with egr-3, expression of egr-2 was blocked by cyclosporin A..
Although overexpressed Egr-1 was ineffective, overexpressed Egr-2 was as potent as Egr-3 in inducing fasL promoter-dependent reporter constructs in T cell hybridomas and HeLa cells, and both up-regulated endogenous fasL mRNA in HeLa cells.
FasL-dependent reporter constructs in MRL-lpr/lpr and C3H-gld/gld CD4 -LRB- - -RRB- CD8 -LRB- - -RRB- T cells were constitutively active, and this activity was largely prevented by mutation of the critical Egr family binding element.
Anoxia/reoxygenation-induced tolerance with respect to polymorphonuclear leukocyte adhesion to cultured endothelial cells.
A nuclear factor-kappaB-mediated phenomenon.
Exposing human umbilical vein endothelial cells -LRB- HUVECs -RRB- to anoxia/reoxygenation -LRB- A/R -RRB- results in an increase in polymorphonuclear leukocyte -LRB- PMN -RRB- adhesion to HUVECs.
This A/R-induced hyperadhesion is completely prevented by a previous -LRB- 24 hours earlier -RRB- exposure of HUVECs to A/R.
This phenomenon has been termed `` A/R tolerance. ''.
Exposing HUVECs to A/R induces an increase in nuclear factor kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- in HUVEC nuclei within 4 hours.
Interfering with either NF-kappaB activation -LRB- proteasome inhibitor -RRB- or translocation -LRB- double-stranded oligonucleotides containing NF-kappaB binding sequence -RRB- prevents the development of A/R tolerance -LRB- ie, the increase in A/R-induced PMN adhesion to HUVECs is the same after the first and second A/R challenges -RRB-.
NO production by HUVECs is increased after the second A/R challenge, but not after the first A/R challenge.
Inhibition of NO synthase -LRB- NOS -RRB- during the second A/R challenge prevents the development of A/R tolerance with respect to PMN adhesion.
However, while HUVECs contained endothelial NOS protein, no inducible NOS was detected in either tolerant or nontolerant cells.
Extracellular generation of NO -LRB- NO donor -RRB- did not effect the hyperadhesion response induced by the initial A/R challenge.
A/R also induced an oxidant stress in naive HUVECs, but not in A/R-tolerant HUVECs.
Inhibition of NOS during the second A/R insult results in the generation of an oxidant stress similar to that observed after the first A/R challenge.
Taken together, the findings of the present study are consistent with a role for NF-kappaB in the development of A/R tolerance -LRB- with respect to PMN adhesion -RRB-, perhaps by transcriptional regulation of GTP-cyclohydrolase.
CD2 signalling induces phosphorylation of CREB in primary lymphocytes.
Promoter sequences responsive to cyclic AMP -LRB- cAMP -RRB- are found in a number of cellular genes, and bind transcription factors of the cAMP response element binding protein -LRB- CREB -RRB- / activating transcription factor-1 -LRB- ATF-1 -RRB- family.
We have used a human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 -LRB- HTLV-1 -RRB- model of cAMP response element -LRB- CRE -RRB- transcription to investigate the influence of lymphocyte activation on transcription from homologous regions in the viral promoter.
We previously demonstrated increased HTLV-1 transcription following CD2 but not CD3 receptor cross-linking.
Therefore, we investigated CD2 and CD3 receptor-mediated signalling in primary human peripheral blood mononuclear cells -LRB- PBMC -RRB-.
CD2, but not CD3, cross-linking increased cAMP detected by competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay -LRB- ELISA -RRB- approximately fourfold.
CD2 cross-linking concurrently increased phosphorylation of CREB detected by immunoblot assay eightfold.
Consistent with post-translational regulation, no change in total level of CREB protein was observed.
Intranuclear targeted delivery of functional NF-kappaB by 70 kDa heat shock protein.
The 70 kDa heat shock protein -LRB- Hsp70 -RRB- is a highly conserved, ubiquitous protein involved in chaperoning proteins to various cellular organelles.
Here we show that when added exogenously to cells, Hsp70 is readily imported into both cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments in a cell-type-specific fashion.
We exploited this ability of Hsp70 to deliver NF-kappaB, a key transcriptional regulator of inflammatory responses.
We demonstrate that a fusion protein composed of a C-terminal Hsp70 peptide and the p50 subunit of NF-kappaB was directed into the nucleus of cells, could bind DNA specifically, and activated Igkappa expression and TNFalpha production.
Tissue factor expression of human monocytes is suppressed by lysophosphatidylcholine.
The expression of tissue factor -LRB- TF -RRB-, the principal initiator of coagulation, is increased during inflammation and atherosclerosis.
Both conditions are promoted by lysophosphatidylcholine -LRB- lysoPC -RRB-.
We observed in the present study that lysoPC -LRB- 1 to 10 micromol/L -RRB- dose-dependently reduced TF activity in human monocytes, as elicited by lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-.
Lysophosphatidylethanolamine -LRB- lysoPE -RRB- and other lysophospholipids did not affect LPS-induced TF activity of human monocytes.
TF antigen expression as elicited by LPS was also lowered by lysoPC.
Phospholipid analyses indicated a selective increase in the lysoPC content of the monocytes after preincubation with the lysophospholipid.
LysoPC inhibited the TF activity of Mono Mac-6 cells to a similar extent as in the monocytes.
LPS binding to plasma membrane receptors and internalization of LPS into monocytes were not affected by lysoPC.
In contrast, LPS-mediated nuclear binding of nuclear factor-kappaB/Rel to a TF-specific kappaB site was inhibited by lysoPC.
Induction of TF mRNA expression by LPS tended to be partially reduced by the lysophospholipid.
Preincubation with lysoPC increased monocytic cAMP levels.
Inhibition of adenylyl cyclase by pretreatment with 2' - deoxy-3' - adenosine monophosphate partially reversed the inhibition of TF activity promoted by lysoPC.
Differential monocyte adhesion and adhesion molecule expression in venous and arterial endothelial cells.
We compared U-937 cell adhesion and adhesion molecule expression in human umbilical venous -LRB- HUVECs -RRB- and arterial -LRB- HUAECs -RRB- endothelial cells exposed to tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB-, interleukin-1, and lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-.
TNF and LPS stimulated vascular cell adhesion molecule -LRB- VCAM -RRB- -1 surface expression and adhesion of U-937 monocyte-like cells to HUVECs but not to HUAECs.
Antibody studies demonstrated that in HUVECs at least 75 % of the adhesion response is VCAM-1 mediated.
Interleukin-1 stimulated U-937 cell adhesion to and VCAM-1 surface expression in both HUVECs and HUAECs.
Pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate and the proteasome inhibitor MG-132 blocked TNF - and LPS-stimulated U-937 cell adhesion to HUVECs.
These agents also significantly decreased TNF - and LPS-stimulated increases in HUVEC surface VCAM-1.
TNF increased VCAM-1 protein and mRNA in HUVECs that was blocked by pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate.
However, neither TNF or LPS stimulated VCAM-1 expression in HUAECs.
TNF stimulated expression of both intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and E-selectin in HUVECs, but in HUAECs, only intercellular adhesion molecule-1 was increased.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays demonstrated no difference in the pattern of TNF-stimulated nuclear factor-kappaB activation between HUVECs and HUAECs.
Regulation of IL-6 synthesis in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells by C3a and C3a -LRB- desArg -RRB-.
The anaphylatoxin C3a has been reported to have immunomodulatory effects on a number of different cell types.
In this study we investigated the effects of C3a and C3a -LRB- desArg -RRB- on gene expression and protein secretion of IL-6 in human PBMCs, either alone or in combination with LPS or IL-1beta.
C3a or C3a -LRB- desArg -RRB- alone exhibited no effect on the expression or secretion of IL-6.
However, when PBMC were stimulated with LPS or IL-1beta, both C3a and C3a -LRB- desArg -RRB- were found to enhance IL-6 release by PBMC in a dose-dependent manner.
Northern blot analysis showed that C3a as well as C3a -LRB- desArg -RRB- enhanced LPS-induced mRNA levels for IL-6.
Furthermore, we investigated the effects of C3a and C3a -LRB- desArg -RRB- on induction of NF-kappaB and activating protein-1 binding.
Both molecules enhanced LPS-induced NF-kappaB and activating protein-1 binding activity.
These results demonstrate the capacity of intact C3a and its circulating des-Arg form to exert immunmodulatory effects in vitro.
Binding of HMG-I -LRB- Y -RRB- elicits structural changes in a silencer of the human beta-globin gene.
In this study, we cloned two cDNAs encoding proteins which bind to an oligonucleotide in silencer I containing a BP1 binding site.
These cDNAs correspond to HMG-I and HMG-Y, isoforms regarded as architectural proteins.
We demonstrate that binding of HMG-I -LRB- Y -RRB- to this oligonucleotide causes bending/flexure of the DNA.
Expression studies revealed that HMG-I -LRB- Y -RRB- is ubiquitously expressed in human tissues that do not express beta-globin, being present in 48 of 50 tissues and six hematopoietic cell lines examined.
Furthermore, HMG-I -LRB- Y -RRB- expression is down-regulated during differentiation of primary erythroid cells.
We present a model in which HMG-I -LRB- Y -RRB- alters DNA conformation to allow binding of repressor proteins, and in which the relative amount of HMG-I -LRB- Y -RRB- helps to determine the repressive state of the beta-globin gene.
High-level replication of human immunodeficiency virus in thymocytes requires NF-kappaB activation through interaction with thymic epithelial cells.
We have previously demonstrated that interaction of infected thymocytes with autologous thymic epithelial cells -LRB- TEC -RRB- is a prerequisite for a high level of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- replication in thymocytes -LRB- M.Rothe, L.Chene, M.Nugeyre, F.Barre-Sinoussi, and N.Israel, J.Virol .72:5852 -5861, 1998 -RRB-.
We report here that this activation of HIV replication takes place at the transcriptional level through activation of the Rel/NF-kappaB transcription factors.
We first demonstrate that an HIV-1 provirus -LRB- SF-2 strain -RRB- very effectively replicates in thymocytes cocultured with TEC whereas this provirus, with kappaB sites deleted, fails to replicate.
We provide evidence that several NF-kappaB complexes are constitutively found in the nuclei of thymocytes either freshly isolated from the thymus or maintained in coculture with autologous or heterologous TEC.
The prevalent complex is the heterodimer p50-p65.
NF-kappaB activity is tightly correlated with the transcriptional activity of a long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- of HIV-1 transfected in thymocytes.
The cotransfection of this LTR with a mutated IkappaBalpha molecule formally demonstrates that LTR transactivation is regulated by members of the Rel/NF-kappaB family in thymocytes.
We also showed that tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- and to a lesser extent interleukin-1 -LRB- IL-1 -RRB-, secreted within the coculture, induce NF-kappaB activity and a correlative LTR transactivation.
However IL-7, a crucial factor for thymopoiesis that is secreted mainly by TEC, is a necessary cofactor for NF-kappaB activation elicited by TNF or IL-1.
Cross-linking of CD44 on rheumatoid synovial cells up-regulates VCAM-1.
CD44 is a ubiquitous molecule also known as hyaluronic acid or homing receptor.
In this study, we propose a novel function for CD44.
Using synovial cells from rheumatoid arthritis -LRB- RA -RRB- patients, we demonstrated that CD44 cross-linking and binding to hyaluronan augmented VCAM-1 expression and subsequently VCAM-1-mediated cell adhesion.
Briefly, we found that 1 -RRB- rheumatoid synovial cells highly expressed CD44 ; 2 -RRB- cross-linking of CD44 markedly but transiently augmented VCAM-1 expression and its mRNA transcription much more than did IL-1beta and TNF-alpha ; 3 -RRB- hyaluronan, especially when fragmented, also up-regulated VCAM-1 ; 4 -RRB- CD44 activated the transcription factor AP-1 ; and 5 -RRB- the integrin-dependent adhesive function of RA synovial cells to T cells was also amplified by CD44 cross-linking.
NF-kappaB activation is a critical regulator of human granulocyte apoptosis in vitro.
Here we show that the rate of constitutive apoptosis in human neutrophils and eosinophils is greatly accelerated in both a rapid and concentration-dependent manner by the fungal metabolite gliotoxin, but not by its inactive analog methylthiogliotoxin.
This induction of apoptosis was abolished by the caspase inhibitor zVAD-fmk, correlated with the inhibition of nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB-, and was mimicked by a cell permeable inhibitory peptide of NF-kappaB, SN-50 ; other NF-kappaB inhibitors, curcumin and pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate ; and the proteasome inhibitor, MG-132.
Gliotoxin also augmented dramatically the early -LRB- 2-6 h -RRB- pro-apoptotic effects of tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- in neutrophils and unmasked the ability of TNF-alpha to induce eosinophil apoptosis.
Lactobacilli and vaginal host defense : activation of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 long terminal repeat, cytokine production, and NF-kappaB.
Lactobacilli, a component of the normal vaginal flora, can activate the human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- -1 long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- in the Jurkat T lymphocyte and THP-1 macrophage cell lines.
Activation of the LTR in Jurkat cells was strongly enhanced by vanadate and inhibited by catalase, implicating H2O2.
In contrast, activation in THP-1 cells occurred in the absence of vanadate and was unaffected by catalase.
The active material partitioned into the phenol layer on hot aqueous phenol extraction.
Lactobacilli also increased tumor necrosis factor-alphaand interleukin-1betaproduction and activated NF-kappaB in THP-1 cells and increased tumor necrosis factor-alphaproduction by human monocytes.
Human vaginal fluid specimens had comparable properties, which correlated with their bacterial content.
Inhibition of NF-kappa B activation in vitro and in vivo : role of 26S proteasome.
It is becoming increasingly apparent that NF-kappa B plays a critical role in regulating the inflammatory response.
Data obtained from studies in our laboratories demonstrate that the proteasome plays an important role in the inflammatory cascade by regulating the activation of NF-kappa B..
Comparison of HTLV-I basal transcription and expression of CREB/ATF -1 / CREM family members in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and Jurkat T cells.
HTLV-I is the etiologic agent of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma and is associated with tropical spastic paraparesis/HTLV-I-associated myelopathy.
Following integration into the host cell genome, HTLV-I replication is regulated by both host and viral mechanisms that control transcription.
Low levels of viral transcription -LRB- basal transcription -RRB- occur before expression of the virally encoded Tax protein -LRB- Tax-mediated transcription -RRB-.
Members of the cyclic adenosine monophosphate -LRB- cAMP -RRB- response element binding -LRB- CREB -RRB- / activating transcription factor 1 -LRB- ATF-1 -RRB- family of transcription factors bind three 21-bp repeats -LRB- Tax-responsive element-1, or TRE-1 -RRB- within the viral promoter and are important for basal and Tax-mediated transcription.
Using mitogen stimulated and quiescent peripheral blood mononuclear cells -LRB- PBMC -RRB- and Jurkat cells, we compared differences in basal transcription and amounts and binding of transcription factors with TRE-1.
We demonstrate that amounts of transcriptionally active phosphorylated CREB protein -LRB- P-CREB -RRB- differ between activated PBMC and Jurkat cells.
Following stimulation, P-CREB levels remain elevated in PBMC for up to 24 hours whereas CREB is dephosphorylated in Jurkat cells within 4 hours following stimulation.
The differences in P-CREB levels between PBMC and Jurkat cells were directly correlated with basal transcription of HTLV-I in the two cell types.
Using electrophoretic mobility shift assays, we determined that the pattern of band migration differed between the two cell types.
These data demonstrate that PBMC differentially regulate basal HTLV-I transcription compared with Jurkat T cells, and this differential regulation is due, in part to differential phosphorylation and binding of CREB/ATF -1 to TRE-1 in the HTLV-I promoter.
Involvement of mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways in interleukin-8 production by human monocytes and polymorphonuclear cells stimulated with lipopolysaccharide or Mycoplasma fermentans membrane lipoproteins.
Interleukin-8 -LRB- IL-8 -RRB- is a chemokine that belongs to the alpha-chemokine or CXC subfamily and is produced by a wide variety of human cells, including monocytes and polymorphonuclear cells -LRB- PMN -RRB-.
IL-8 is secreted in response to inflammatory stimuli, notably bacterial products such as lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-, but little is known about the mechanisms by which these agents mediate IL-8 induction.
In this report, we show that Mycoplasma fermentans lipid-associated membrane proteins -LRB- LAMPf -RRB- induce the production of high levels of IL-8 by THP-1 -LRB- human monocyte -RRB- cells and PMN at the same extent as LPS.
It was previously demonstrated that stimulation of monocytic cells with either LPS or LAMPf led to a series of common downstream signaling events, including the activation of protein tyrosine kinase and of mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades.
By using PD-98059 and SB203580, two potent and selective inhibitors of MEK1 -LRB- a kinase upstream of ERK1/2 -RRB- and p38, respectively, we have demonstrated that both ERK1/2 and p38 cascades play a key role in the production of IL-8 by monocytes and PMN stimulated with bacterial fractions.
T cell priming enhances IL-4 gene expression by increasing nuclear factor of activated T cells.
The repetitive activation of T cells -LRB- priming -RRB- enhances the expression of many cytokines, such as IL-4, but not others, such as IL-2.
Molecular mechanisms underlying selective expression of cytokines by T cells remain poorly understood.
Here we show that priming of CD4 T cells selectively enhances IL-4 expression relative to IL-2 expression by a transcriptional mechanism involving nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB- proteins.
As detected by in vivo footprinting, priming markedly increases the activation-dependent engagement of the P0 and P1 NFAT-binding elements of the IL-4 promoter.
Moreover, each proximal P element is essential for optimal IL-4 promoter activity.
Activated primed CD4 T cells contain more NFAT1 and support greater NFAT-directed transcription than unprimed CD4 T cells, while activator protein 1 binding and activator protein 1-mediated transcription by both cell types is similar.
Furthermore, a truncated form of NFAT1 acts as a dominant-negative, reducing IL-4 promoter activity in primed CD4 T cells and confirming the importance of endogenous NFAT to increased IL-4 gene expression by effector T cells.
Oleic acid inhibits endothelial activation : A direct vascular antiatherogenic mechanism of a nutritional component in the mediterranean diet.
We incubated sodium oleate with human umbilical vein endothelial cells for 0 to 72 hours, followed by coincubation of oleate with human recombinant tumor necrosis factor, interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -1 alpha, IL-1beta, IL-4, Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-, or phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate for a further 6 to 24 hours.
The endothelial expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- VCAM-1 -RRB-, E-selectin, and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 was monitored by cell surface enzyme immunoassays or flow cytometry, and steady-state levels of VCAM-1 mRNA were assessed by Northern blot analysis.
At 10 to 100 micromol/L for > 24 hours, oleate inhibited the expression of all adhesion molecules tested.
After a 72-hour incubation with oleate and a further 16-hour incubation with oleate plus 1 microg/mL LPS, VCAM-1 expression was reduced by > 40 % compared with control.
Adhesion of monocytoid U937 cells to LPS-treated endothelial cells was reduced concomitantly.
Oleate also produced a quantitatively similar reduction of VCAM-1 mRNA levels on Northern blot analysis and inhibited nuclear factor-kappaB activation on electrophoretic mobility shift assays.
Incubation of endothelial cells with oleate for 72 hours decreased the relative proportions of saturated -LRB- palmitic and stearic -RRB- acids in total cell lipids and increased the proportions of oleate in total cell lipids without significantly changing the relative proportions of polyunsaturated fatty acids.
Functional association of Nmi with Stat5 and Stat1 in IL-2 - and IFNgamma-mediated signaling.
We further show that Nmi interacts with all STATs except Stat2.
We evaluated two cytokine systems, IL-2 and IFNgamma, and demonstrate that Nmi augments STAT-mediated transcription in response to these cytokines.
Interestingly, Nmi lacks an intrinsic transcriptional activation domain ; instead, Nmi enhances the association of CBP/p300 coactivator proteins with Stat1 and Stat5, and together with CBP/p300 can augment IL-2 - and IFNgamma-dependent transcription.
Expression of transcription factor genes after influenza A virus infection.
Infection of human monocytes with influenza A virus induces a broad range of proinflammatory cytokines and mononuclear cell attracting chemokines before the infected cells undergo apoptosis.
The underlying mechanisms by which the corresponding genes are transcriptionally initiated after virus infection are still poorly understood.
We identified a cell-type-specific differential response : CREB, CTF, OTF-1, OFT-2, and NF-kappa B genes were strongly induced 1 to 4 hours after influenza A virus infection in the monocytic cell line Mono Mac 6, while in freshly prepared human monocytes no significant changes were detected.
In infected monocytes, which die by apoptosis, the expression of CREB, CTF, and OTF-2 was rather suppressed 8 hours after infection.
Temporal control of IgH gene expression in developing B cells by the 3' locus control region.
Induction of interleukin-12 p40 transcript by CD40 ligation via activation of nuclear factor-kappaB.
Interleukin-12 is produced in response to infection with bacteria or parasites or to bacterial constituents such as LPS in monocytes/macrophages and dendritic cells, and also generated by the interaction between activated T cells and antigen-presenting cells via CD40-CD40 ligand -LRB- CD40L -RRB-.
So far, transcriptional analyses of p40 have been carried out only using bacterial constituents such as LPS as stimuli.
In the present study, we have characterized the transcriptional induction of p40 by CD40 ligation in a human B lymphoblastoid cell line, Daudi, and a human acute monocytic leukemia cell line, THP-1.
These cells, stimulated by an agonistic monoclonal antibody against CD40 or by transfection with a CD40L expression vector, secreted p40 and showed enhanced p40 mRNA expression.
Moreover, transfection of Daudi cells with the polymerized NF-kappaB binding sequence ligated to a thymidine kinase/chloramphenicol acetyltransferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- reporter plasmid greatly induced CAT activity, but transfection with the polymerized mutated NF-kappaB binding sequence did not.
-LSB- Molecular-biologic aspects of interaction between nervous and immune systems -RSB-.
The problem of the neuro-immuno interactions on the level of the protein trans-factors, stimulating interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- gene expression was discussed.
The physico-chemical and functional parameters of the low molecular nuclear proteins -LRB- SP and BP - 14, 18, 19 kDs -RRB- isolated from splenic and brain cells of immunized rats were studied.
The binding of these proteins to the regulatory region of IL-2 gene in vitro and stimulation of the IL-2mRNA synthesis in splenic T-lymphocytes culture in normal conditions were shown.
The protective effect of SP and BP on the IL-2mRNA synthesis in stressful conditions and by the T-cells treatment with the CsA was demonstrated.
Cytokine rescue from glucocorticoid induced apoptosis in T cells is mediated through inhibition of IkappaBalpha.
We previously reported that dexamethasone -LRB- DEX -RRB-, a synthetic glucocorticoid, causes apoptosis in mature Th cell lines, and that this induction of cell death is prevented by specific cytokines, namely, by IL-2 in Th1 cells and by IL-4 in Th2 cells.
We now show that this differential rescue by specific cytokines in Th cells correlates with the level of IkappaBalpha that is regulated by DEX and cytokines.
In both cell types the cellular levels of IkappaBalpha mRNA and protein were evaluated by DEX treatment.
Interestingly, the DEX-mediated IkappaBalpha induction was completely inhibited by IL-2, but not IL-4, in Th1 cells, while the reverse profile was seen in Th2 cells.
In both cell types, the cytokine that inhibits the induction of IkappaBalpha by DEX, also rescues these cells from DEX-induced apoptosis, although the rescue cytokine is different in Th1 and Th2 cells.
Oxidants, transcription factors, and intestinal inflammation.
It is now well appreciated that chronic gut inflammation is characterized by enhanced production of reactive metabolites of oxygen and nitrogen.
Some of these oxidants are known to modulate the expression of a variety of genes that are involved in the immune and inflammatory responses.
For example, certain oxidants are known to activate the nuclear transcription factor kappa B, which regulates the expression of a variety of different adhesion molecules, cytokines, and enzymes.
Oxidants are also known to activate another transcription factor, activator protein-1.
Role of cyclic AMP response element-binding protein in cyclic AMP inhibition of NF-kappaB-mediated transcription.
The NF-kappaB family of transcription factors regulates the inducible expression of a variety of genes.
Recently, we showed that elevation of intracellular cyclic AMP inhibits NF-kappaB-mediated transcription in human monocytes and endothelial cells without preventing nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB complexes.
The present study examined the molecular mechanism of this inhibition.
Here, we show that the amino-terminal region -LRB- amino acids 1-450 -RRB- of CBP specifically interacts with the carboxyl-terminal region -LRB- amino acids 286-551 -RRB- of NF-kappaB p65 -LRB- RelA -RRB- both in vitro and in vivo.
Functional studies using human endothelial cells demonstrated that overexpression of CBP rescued cAMP inhibition of NF-kappaB-mediated transcription and transcription mediated by a chimeric protein, GAL4-p65 -LRB- 286-551 -RRB-, which contained the GAL4 DNA binding domain fused to the carboxyl-terminal region of p65 -LRB- amino acids 286-551 -RRB-.
In contrast, overexpression of CREB inhibited GAL4-p65 -LRB- 286-551 -RRB- - mediated transcription.
Endothelial cell activation and leukocyte infiltration are a consistent feature of discordant xenograft rejection.
Porcine aortic endothelial cells -LRB- PAEC -RRB- were incubated for 1 hr 30 min or 5 hr with 10 % homologous porcine serum -LRB- control -RRB- or 10 % xenogeneic human serum and then perfused with total human leukocytes in a parallel plate flow chamber under laminar flow -LRB- 1.5 dynes/cm2 -RRB-.
Adherent cells were counted by digital image analysis.
Xenogeneic human serum significantly -LRB- P < 0.01 -RRB- increased the number of adherent leukocytes as compared with porcine serum.
A similar adhesive response was elicited by TNF alpha -LRB- 100 U/ml -RRB-, one of the most potent inducers of endothelial cell adhesive properties, here used as positive control.
By confocal fluorescence microscopy, we observed a positive staining for NF-kappa B -LRB- p65 subunit -RRB- in the nuclei of PAEC exposed for 1 hr 30 min to human serum, which indicated NF-kappa B activation in this setting.
At variance, in PAEC incubated with the homologous serum, NF-kappa B was strictly localized in the cell cytoplasm.
Treatment of PAEC exposed to xenogeneic serum with the NF-kappa B inhibitors pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate -LRB- PDTC, 25 microM -RRB- and tosyl-phechloromethylketone -LRB- TPCK, 25 microM -RRB- significantly -LRB- P < 0.01 -RRB- reduced leukocyte adhesion in respect to PAEC treated with human serum alone.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 long terminal repeat quasispecies differ in basal transcription and nuclear factor recruitment in human glial cells and lymphocytes.
The generation of genomic diversity during the course of infection has the potential to affect all aspects of HIV-1 replication, including expression of the proviral genome.
To gain a better understanding of the impact of long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- sequence diversity on LTR-directed gene expression in cells of the central nervous system -LRB- CNS -RRB- and immune system, we amplified and cloned LTRs from proviral DNA in HIV-1-infected peripheral blood.
Sequence analysis of nineteen LTRs cloned from 2 adult and 3 pediatric patients revealed an average of 33 nucleotide changes -LRB- with respect to the sequence of the LAI LTR -RRB- within the 455-bp U3 region.
Transient expression analyses in cells of neuroglial and lymphocytic origin demonstrated that some of these LTRs had activities which varied significantly from the LAI LTR in U-373 MG cells -LRB- an astrocytoma cell line -RRB- as well as in Jurkat cells -LRB- a CD4-positive lymphocyte cell line -RRB-.
While LTRs which demonstrated the highest activities in U-373 MG cells also yielded high activities in Jurkat cells, the LTRs were generally more active in Jurkat cells when compared to the LAI LTR.
Differences in LTR sequence also resulted in differences in transcription factor recruitment to cis-acting sites within the U3 region of the LTR, as demonstrated by electrophoretic mobility shift assays.
In particular, naturally occurring sequence variation impacted transcription factor binding to an activating transcription factor/cAMP response element binding -LRB- ATF/CREB -RRB- binding site -LRB- located between the LEF-1 and distal NF-kappaB transcription factor binding sites -RRB- that we identified in previous studies of the HIV-1 LTR.
Differential induction of DNA-binding activities following CD19 cross-linking in human B lineage cells.
The B cell-specific cell surface molecule CD19 is expressed at all stages of B cell development, including normal plasma cells, and mediates signal transduction via interaction with cytoplasmic effector proteins.
Cross-linking CD19 on early human B lineage cells induces the formation of a CD19/Vav/phosphatidylinositol -3 kinase complex, tyrosine phosphorylation of CD19 and Vav, and activation of the Ras pathway.
The cells used were the BLIN-1 pre-B cell line expressing low levels of cell surface mu heavy chain associated with surrogate light chain and the 1E8 immature B cell line expressing cell surface mu/kappa.
Lysates from CD19 cross-linked 1E8 cells induced robust phosphorylation of an Elk-1 fusion protein in vitro, whereas no phosphorylation of Elk-1 fusion protein occurred using lysates from CD19 cross-linked BLIN-1 cells.
An electrophoretic mobility shift assay employing AP-1 and NF-kappaB consensus oligonucleotides was used to demonstrate that AP-1 - binding activity increased, while constitutive NF-kappaB-binding activity was not enhanced, following 2 h of CD19 cross-linking in 1E8 cells.
Supershift experiments revealed that JunD and c-Fos proteins mediated anti-CD19 induced AP-1-binding activity in 1E8 cells.
In contrast, CD19 cross-linking in BLIN-1 cells resulted in the induction of NF-kappaB, but had no apparent effect on AP-1-binding activity.
IL-2-induced growth of CD8 + T cell prolymphocytic leukemia cells mediated by NF-kappaB induction and IL-2 receptor alpha expression.
The binding of interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- to its receptor on normal T cells induces nuclear expression of nuclear factor kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB-, activation of the IL-2 receptor -LRB- IL-2R -RRB- alpha chain gene, and cell proliferation.
In the present study, the role of IL-2R signaling in the growth of CD8 + T cell prolymphocytic leukemia -LRB- T-PLL -RRB- cells has been investigated.
Flow cytometry revealed that primary leukemia cells from a patient with CD8 + T-PLL expressed IL-2Ralpha and beta chains, and the cells showed a proliferative response and an increase in IL-2Ralpha expression on culture with exogeneous IL-2.
Electrophoretic mobility-shift assays revealed that recombinant IL-2 increased NF-kappaB binding activity in nuclear extracts of the leukemia cells, and Northern blot analysis showed that IL-2 increased the abundance of mRNAs encoding the NF-kappaB components c-Rel and KBF1 in these cells.
IL-2 binding analysis demonstrated that IL-2 markedly increased the number of low affinity IL-2Rs on the leukemia cells, without an effect on the number of high-affinity IL-2Rs.
These results show that IL-2 is capable of inducing the nuclear expression of NF-kappaB in primary CD8 + T-PLL cells, and that this effect is mediated, at least in part, at a pretranslational level.
Inhibition of nuclear factor kappaB activation attenuates apoptosis resistance in lymphoid cells.
We demonstrate here that TRAIL -LRB- TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand -RRB-, a recently identified DIL, also activates NFkappaB in lymphoid cell lines in a kinetic similar to TNFalpha.
NFkappaB activity is independent from FADD, caspases, and apoptosis induction.
To study the influence of NFkappaB activity on apoptosis mediated by TRAIL, CD95, TNFalpha, or doxorubicin, NFkappaB activation was inhibited using the proteasome inhibitor N-acetyl-L-leucinyl-L-leucinyl-L-norleucinal or transient overexpression of mutant IkappaBalpha.
Sensitivity for induction of apoptosis was markedly increased by these treatments in apoptosis sensitive cell lines.
Moreover, both in cell lines and in primary leukemia cells that are resistant towards induction of apoptosis by DILs and doxorubicin, antagonization of NFkappaB activity partially restored apoptosis sensitivity.
Coactivation by OCA-B : definition of critical regions and synergism with general cofactors.
Molecular dissection of the B-cell-specific transcription coactivator OCA-B has revealed distinct regions important, respectively, for recruitment to immunoglobulin promoters through interaction with octamer-bound Oct-1 and for subsequent coactivator function.
Further analysis of general coactivator requirements showed that selective removal of PC4 from the essential USA fraction severely impairs Oct-1 and OCA-B function in a cell-free system reconstituted with partially purified factors.
Indeed, USA-derived PC2 was found to act synergistically with PC4 in reproducing the function of intact USA in the assay system.
Consistent with the requirement for PC4 in the reconstituted system, OCA-B was found to interact directly with PC4.
Surprisingly, however, removal of PC4 from the unfractionated nuclear extract has no detrimental effect on OCA-B/Oct -1 - dependent transcription.
The human toll signaling pathway : divergence of nuclear factor kappaB and JNK/SAPK activation upstream of tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 -LRB- TRAF6 -RRB-.
The human homologue of Drosophila Toll -LRB- hToll -RRB- is a recently cloned receptor of the interleukin 1 receptor -LRB- IL-1R -RRB- superfamily, and has been implicated in the activation of adaptive immunity.
Signaling by hToll is shown to occur through sequential recruitment of the adapter molecule MyD88 and the IL-1R-associated kinase.
Tumor necrosis factor receptor-activated factor 6 -LRB- TRAF6 -RRB- and the nuclear factor kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- - inducing kinase -LRB- NIK -RRB- are both involved in subsequent steps of NF-kappaB activation.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis mannose-capped lipoarabinomannan can induce NF-kappaB-dependent activation of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 long terminal repeat in T cells.
Tuberculosis has emerged as an epidemic, extended by the large number of individuals infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB-.
These experiments are of prime importance considering that CD4-expressing T lymphocytes represent the major virus reservoir in the peripheral blood of infected individuals.
Using the 1G5 cell line harbouring the luciferase reporter gene under the control of the HIV-1 LTR, it was first found that culture protein filtrates -LRB- CFP -RRB- from M. tuberculosis or purified ManLAM could activate HIV-1 LTR-dependent gene expression unlike similarly prepared CFP extracts devoid of ManLAM.
The implication of protein tyrosine kinase -LRB- s -RRB-, protein kinase A and/or protein kinase C was highlighted by the abrogation of the ManLAM-mediated activation of HIV-1 LTR-driven gene expression using herbimycin A and H7.
It was also determined, using electrophoresis mobility shift assays, that M. tuberculosis ManLAM led to the nuclear translocation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB.
M. tuberculosis ManLAM resulted in clear induction of the luciferase gene placed under the control of the wild-type, but not the kappaB-mutated, HIV-1 LTR region.
Finally, the ManLAM-mediated activation of HIV-1 LTR transcription was found to be independent of the autocrine or paracrine action of endogenous TNF-alpha.
Limited proteolysis for assaying ligand binding affinities of nuclear receptors.
The binding of natural or synthetic ligands to nuclear receptors is the triggering event leading to gene transcription activation or repression.
Ligand binding to the ligand binding domain of these receptors induces conformational changes that are evidenced by an increased resistance of this domain to proteases.
In vitro labeled receptors were incubated with various synthetic or natural agonists or antagonists and submitted to trypsin digestion.
Proteolysis products were separated by SDS-PAGE and quantified.
The amount of trypsin-resistant fragments was proportional to receptor occupancy by the ligand, and allowed the determination of dissociation constants -LRB- kDa -RRB-.
Using the wild-type or mutated human retinoic acid receptor alpha as a model, kDa values determined by classical competition binding assays using tritiated ligands are in agreement with those measured by the proteolytic assay.
This method was successfully extended to human retinoic X receptor alpha, glucocorticoid receptor, and progesterone receptor, thus providing a basis for a new, faster assay to determine simultaneously the affinity and conformation of receptors when bound to a given ligand.
Oxidative stress suppresses transcription factor activities in stimulated lymphocytes.
Effects of oxidative stress on stimulation-dependent signal transduction, leading to IL-2 expression, were studied.
Purified quiescent human blood T lymphocytes were subjected to : -LRB- i -RRB- acute exposure to hydrogen peroxide ; -LRB- ii -RRB- chronic exposure to hydrogen peroxide ; and -LRB- iii -RRB- acute exposure to ionizing radiation.
The cells were then stimulated for 6 h..
DNA-binding activities -LRB- determined by the electrophoretic mobility shift assay -RRB- of three transcription factors : NFkappaB, AP-1 and NFAT, were abolished in the lymphocytes by all three modes of oxidative stress.
The lymphocytes exhibited lipid peroxidation only upon exposure to the lowest level of hydrogen peroxide used -LRB- 20 microM -RRB-.
All three modes of oxidative stress induced catalase activity in the lymphocytes.
The only exception was hydrogen peroxide at 20 microM, which did not induce catalase activity.
DNA damaging agents induce expression of Fas ligand and subsequent apoptosis in T lymphocytes via the activation of NF-kappa B and AP-1.
Apoptosis induced by DNA damage and other stresses can proceed via expression of Fas ligand -LRB- FasL -RRB- and ligation of its receptor, Fas -LRB- CD95 -RRB-.
We report that activation of the two transcription factors NF-kappa B and AP-1 is crucially involved in FasL expression induced by etoposide, teniposide, and UV irradiation.
A nondegradable mutant of I kappa B blocked both FasL expression and apoptosis induced by DNA damage but not Fas ligation.
These stimuli also induced the stress-activated kinase pathway -LRB- SAPK/JNK -RRB-, which was required for the maximal induction of apoptosis.
A 1.2 kb FasL promoter responded to DNA damage, as well as coexpression with p65 Rel or Fos/Jun.
Mutations in the relevant NF-kappa B and AP-1 binding sites eliminated these responses.
Thus, activation of NF-kappa B and AP-1 contributes to stress-induced apoptosis via the expression of FasL.
Thrombopoietin supports in vitro erythroid differentiation via its specific receptor c-Mpl in a human leukemia cell line.
Thrombopoietin -LRB- TPO -RRB- acts on megakaryopoiesis and erythropoiesis in vitro and in vivo.
We isolated a novel subline, UT-7 / GMT, from the human leukemia cell line UT-7 / GM -LRB- N. Komatsu, et al., Blood, 89 : 4021-4033, 1997 -RRB-.
A small population of UT-7 / GM cells positively stained for hemoglobin -LRB- Hb -RRB- after a 7-day exposure to TPO.
More than 50 % of TPO-treated UT-7 / GMT cells positively stained for Hb.
Using UT-7 / GMT cells, we examined how TPO promotes hemoglobinization.
TPO induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the TPO receptor but not the erythropoietin -LRB- EPO -RRB- receptor.
There was no competition between TPO and EPO for binding to EPO receptor.
Isoelectric focusing demonstrated that TPO induced fetal and adult Hb synthesis, whereas EPO induced embryonic, fetal, and adult Hb synthesis.
Redox signals and NF-kappaB activation in T cells.
The activation of NF-kappaB has been recognized to regulate a number of genes necessary for normal T cell responses including IL-2, IL-6, IL-8, and several T cell surface receptors.
In addition, aberrancies in NF-kappaB activity have been implicated in the immunopathogenesis of diseases involving immune or inflammatory processes such as atherosclerosis and HIV-1 infection.
The role of H2O2 and other reactive oxygen species -LRB- ROS -RRB- as an integratory secondary messenger for divergent T cell signals has been complicated by the fact that various T cell lines and peripheral blood T cells differ markedly in the levels of NF-kappaB activation induced by oxidant stress.
Additionally, proposed pathways of NF-kappaB activation have been based on indirect evidence provided by experiments which used antioxidants to inhibit active NF-kappaB formation.
Further, complete activation of T cells requires at least two signals, one that stimulates an increase in intracellular calcium and one that stimulates enzymatic processes including kinases.
The ability of H2O2 or other ROS to induce T cell signals and functional responses by these two mechanisms is reviewed and the specific response of NF-kappaB to redox changes in T cells is examined.
Fibrinogen activates NF-kappa B transcription factors in mononuclear phagocytes.
U937 cells differentiated with PMA in nonadherent culture were shown to express two fibrinogen-binding integrins, predominately CD11b/CD18, and to a lesser extent, CD11c/CD18.
Cells stimulated with fibrinogen -LRB- 10-100 microg/ml -RRB- / Mn2 + -LRB- 50 microM -RRB- for 2 h were examined by electrophoretic mobility shift assay.
NF-kappa B activation, minimal in unstimulated cells, was substantially up-regulated by fibrinogen.
Fibrinogen also caused activation of AP-1, but not SP1 or cAMP response element-binding protein -LRB- CREB -RRB- factors.
Blocking mAbs against CD18 and CD11b abrogated fibrinogen-induced NF-kappa B activation.
To determine the effects on transcriptional regulation, U937 cells were transfected with a plasmid containing the HIV-1 enhancer -LRB- bearing two NF-kappa B sites -RRB- coupled to a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- reporter.
Cells were subsequently stimulated with 1 -RRB- PMA for 24 h, inducing CAT activity by 2.6-fold, 2 -RRB- fibrinogen/Mn2 + for 2 h, inducing CAT activity by 3.2-fold, or 3 -RRB- costimulation with fibrinogen and PMA, inducing 5.7-fold the CAT activity induced by PMA alone.
Ex vivo activation of tumor-draining lymph node T cells reverses defects in signal transduction molecules.
The adoptive transfer of tumor-draining lymph node -LRB- LN -RRB- T cells activated ex vivo with anti-CD3 and interleukin 2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- mediates the regression of the poorly immunogenic murine melanoma D5.
The efficacy of the activated LN cells is augmented when the sensitizing tumor is a genetically modified variant -LRB- designated D5G6 -RRB- that secretes granulocyte/macrophage-colony-stimulating factor.
In contrast to anti-CD3 / IL-2-activated LN cells, adoptive transfer of freshly isolated tumor-draining LN T cells has no therapeutic activity.
The levels of p56lck and p59fyn were lower in tumor-draining than in normal LN T cells and production of tyrosine-phosphorylated substrates was markedly depressed following anti-CD3 stimulation.
After 5-day anti-CD3 / IL-2 activation, levels of p56lck and p59fyn and protein tyrosine kinase activity increased.
Interestingly, the levels of p56lck, p59fyn, and tyrosine kinase activity were higher in activated T cells derived from LN that drained D5G6 than they were in those from D5 tumors.
In contrast, the cytoplasmic levels of c-Rel and Rel A were normal in freshly isolated tumor-draining LN, as was nuclear kappaB DNA-binding activity induced by anti-CD3 mAb or phorbol myristate acetate.
Stimulation of activated LN cells with D5 tumor cells induced the nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB.
Targeted disruption of the MyD88 gene results in loss of IL-1 - and IL-18-mediated function.
MyD88, originally isolated as a myeloid differentiation primary response gene, is shown to act as an adaptor in interleukin-1 -LRB- IL-1 -RRB- signaling by interacting with both the IL-1 receptor complex and IL-1 receptor-associated kinase -LRB- IRAK -RRB-.
Mice generated by gene targeting to lack MyD88 have defects in T cell proliferation as well as induction of acute phase proteins and cytokines in response to IL-1.
Increases in interferon-gamma production and natural killer cell activity in response to IL-18 are abrogated.
In vivo Th1 response is also impaired.
Furthermore, IL-18-induced activation of NF-kappaB and c-Jun N-terminal kinase -LRB- JNK -RRB- is blocked in MyD88 - / - Th1-developing cells.
Taken together, these results demonstrate that MyD88 is a critical component in the signaling cascade that is mediated by IL-1 receptor as well as IL-18 receptor.
Epstein-Barr virus-transforming protein latent infection membrane protein 1 activates transcription factor NF-kappaB through a pathway that includes the NF-kappaB-inducing kinase and the IkappaB kinases IKKalpha and IKKbeta.
The Epstein-Barr virus oncoprotein latent infection membrane protein 1 -LRB- LMP1 -RRB- is a constitutively aggregated pseudo-tumor necrosis factor receptor -LRB- TNFR -RRB- that activates transcription factor NF-kappaB through two sites in its C-terminal cytoplasmic domain.
One site is similar to activated TNFRII in associating with TNFR-associated factors TRAF1 and TRAF2, and the second site is similar to TNFRI in associating with the TNFRI death domain interacting protein TRADD.
TNFRI has been recently shown to activate NF-kappaB through association with TRADD, RIP, and TRAF2 ; activation of the NF-kappaB-inducing kinase -LRB- NIK -RRB- ; activation of the IkappaB alpha kinases -LRB- IKKalpha and IKKbeta -RRB- ; and phosphorylation of IkappaB alpha.
IkappaB alpha phosphorylation on Ser-32 and Ser-36 is followed by its degradation and NF-kappaB activation.
In this report, we show that NF-kappaB activation by LMP1 or by each of its effector sites is mediated by a pathway that includes NIK, IKKalpha, and IKKbeta.
Dominant negative mutants of NIK, IKKalpha, or IKKbeta substantially inhibited NF-kappaB activation by LMP1 or by each of its effector sites.
Dimethyldithiocarbamate inhibits in vitro activation of primary human CD4 + T lymphocytes.
Dithiocarbamates -LRB- DTC -RRB-, a diverse group of industrial and therapeutic chemicals, have been reported to inhibit, enhance or have no effect on the immune system.
The studies described herein were undertaken to investigate the immunotoxicity of one member of this family, dimethyldithiocarbamate -LRB- DMDTC -RRB-.
We demonstrate that 0.1-0 .5 microM DMDTC inhibits TNF-alpha-induced activation of NF-kappaB in primary human CD4 + T cells.
This inhibition is not accompanied by a loss in viability, and DMDTC-treated T cells retain other active signaling pathways throughout the exposure duration.
The inhibition of NF-kappaB is apparently permanent as DMDTC-treated T cells did not regain normal TNF-alpha activation, even after 72 h in culture.
We further demonstrate that 0.1-0 .5 microM DMDTC inhibits intracellular IL-2 production and decreases surface expression of CD25 -LRB- the alpha subunit of the IL-2 receptor -RRB- in T cells stimulated with phorbol ester.
These data demonstrate that DMDTC is a potent immunosuppressive compound in vitro.
The small GTP-binding protein Rho potentiates AP-1 transcription in T cells.
The Rho family of small GTP-binding proteins is involved in the regulation of cytoskeletal structure, gene transcription, specific cell fate development, and transformation.
We demonstrate in this report that overexpression of an activated form of Rho enhances AP-1 activity in Jurkat T cells in the presence of phorbol myristate acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB-, but activated Rho -LRB- V14Rho -RRB- has little or no effect on NFAT, Oct-1, and NF-kappaB enhancer element activities under similar conditions.
Overexpression of a V14Rho construct incapable of membrane localization -LRB- CAAX deleted -RRB- abolishes PMA-induced AP-1 transcriptional activation.
The effect of Rho on AP-1 is independent of the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway, as a dominant-negative MEK and a MEK inhibitor -LRB- PD98059 -RRB- did not affect Rho-induced AP-1 activity.
V14Rho binds strongly to protein kinase Calpha -LRB- PKCalpha -RRB- in vivo ; however, deletion of the CAAX site on V14Rho severely diminished this association.
Evidence for a role for PKCalpha as an effector of Rho was obtained by the observation that coexpression of the N-terminal domain of PKCalpha blocked the effects of activated Rho plus PMA on AP-1 transcriptional activity.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 Tax induction of NF-kappaB involves activation of the IkappaB kinase alpha -LRB- IKKalpha -RRB- and IKKbeta cellular kinases.
Tax expression promotes N-terminal phosphorylation and degradation of IkappaB alpha, a principal cytoplasmic inhibitor of NF-kappaB.
Our studies now demonstrate that HTLV-1 Tax activates the recently identified cellular kinases IkappaB kinase alpha -LRB- IKKalpha -RRB- and IKKbeta, which normally phosphorylate IkappaB alpha on both of its N-terminal regulatory serines in response to tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- and interleukin-1 -LRB- IL-1 -RRB- stimulation.
In contrast, a mutant of Tax termed M22, which does not induce NF-kappaB, fails to activate either IKKalpha or IKKbeta.
Furthermore, endogenous IKK enzymatic activity was significantly elevated in HTLV-1-infected and Tax-expressing T-cell lines.
Transfection of kinase-deficient mutants of IKKalpha and IKKbeta into either human Jurkat T or 293 cells also inhibits NF-kappaB-dependent reporter gene expression induced by Tax.
Similarly, a kinase-deficient mutant of NIK -LRB- NF-kappaB-inducing kinase -RRB-, which represents an upstream kinase in the TNF-alpha and IL-1 signaling pathways leading to IKKalpha and IKKbeta activation, blocks Tax induction of NF-kappaB.
However, plasma membrane-proximal elements in these proinflammatory cytokine pathways are apparently not involved since dominant negative mutants of the TRAF2 and TRAF6 adaptors, which effectively block signaling through the cytoplasmic tails of the TNF-alpha and IL-1 receptors, respectively, do not inhibit Tax induction of NF-kappaB.
Together, these studies demonstrate that HTLV-1 Tax exploits a distal part of the proinflammatory cytokine signaling cascade leading to induction of NF-kappaB.
A CD28-associated signaling pathway leading to cytokine gene transcription and T cell proliferation without TCR engagement.
Stimulation of resting human T cells with the CD28-specific mAb BW 828 induces proliferation and cytokine synthesis without further requirement for TCR coengagement.
This observation prompted us to postulate that signal 2 -LRB- costimulatory signal -RRB- alone without signal 1 -LRB- TCR signal -RRB- can activate T cells.
Stimulation of T cells with BW 828 induced an increase in intracellular Ca2 +, but did not lead to detectable activation of the protein kinases p56 -LRB- lck -RRB- and c-Raf-1.
This pathway resulted in the induction of the transcription factors NF-kappa B, NF-AT, and proteins binding to the CD28 response element of the IL-2 promoter.
On the other hand, stimulation of T cells with mAb 9.3 increased the level of intracellular Ca2 + and triggered the activation of p56 -LRB- lck -RRB- and c-Raf-1, but was unable to induce the binding of transcription factors to the IL-2 promoter.
Cyclosporin A-resistant transactivation of the IL-2 promoter requires activity of okadaic acid-sensitive serine/threonine phosphatases.
Expression of the IL-2 gene requires activation of T cells through stimulation of the TCR and costimulation through accessory receptors.
We have found recently that okadaic acid-sensitive Ser/Thr phosphatases are involved in a cyclosporin A-insensitive pathway that selectively transmits costimulatory signals.
In both activated peripheral blood T lymphocytes and activated tumorigenic T cell lines, IL-2 gene expression was blocked at the transcriptional level by okadaic acid.
The transcription factors active at the IL-2 promoter were differentially influenced : upon down-modulation of okadaic acid-sensitive phosphatases, transactivation by octamer, NF-kappa B, and NF of activated T cells proteins was abrogated, while transactivation by AP-1 proteins was even enhanced.
Inducible nitric oxide : an autoregulatory feedback inhibitor of vascular inflammation.
In this study, we show that a novel function of iNO is to terminate inflammatory processes.
We find that iNO produced by murine macrophage-like cells, RAW264 .7, can inhibit cytokine-induced endothelial cell activation in a separated and mixed endothelial-RAW264 .7 coculture system.
Both iNO production and endothelial VCAM-1 expression were induced simultaneously with bacterial LPS and murine-specific IFN-gamma.
Inhibition of iNO synthase -LRB- iNOS -RRB- activity with N omega-monomethyl-L-arginine in endothelial-RAW264 .7 cocultures, stimulated with murine-specific IFN-gamma and LPS, decreased iNO production by 86 %, augmented VCAM-1 and iNOS expression in endothelial and RAW264 .7 cells, respectively, and increased monocyte adhesion to the endothelial cell surface.
Transient transfection studies using various VCAM-1 promoter constructs demonstrated that inhibitory effects of iNO on VCAM-1 gene transcription were mediated, in part, by inhibitory effects of iNO on kappa B cis-acting elements.
Immunofluorescence studies using an Ab to the RelA -LRB- p65 -RRB- subunit of nuclear factor-kappa B revealed that iNO inhibited the activation of nuclear factor-kappa B..
Characterization of cytokine differential induction of STAT complexes in primary human T and NK cells.
Recent studies reveal that a family of transcription factors, signal transducers and activators of transcription -LRB- STATs -RRB- directly mediate many cytokine signals.
We analyzed the activation of STATs in primary human T and NK cells by a variety of specific cytokines.
We demonstrate that IL-12 induces STAT4 only in freshly isolated primary NK cells, but not in primary T cells, consistent with the lack of the IL-12 receptor in resting T cells.
In contrast, IL-4 induces different C epsilon GAS DNA-protein binding complexes in both T and NK cells.
In addition, IL-6 and IL-2 synergistically induce homo - and heterodimerized STAT1 alpha and STAT3 in both NK and T cells, consistent with their reported synergism in modulating perforin gene expression.
We further demonstrated that IL-2, -7, and -15 induce multiple STAT proteins, including STAT5a, STAT5b, STAT1 alpha, STAT3, and another unidentified Fc gamma RI GAS DNA-binding protein.
Inhibition of HIV-1 replication by combination of a novel inhibitor of TNF-alpha with AZT.
The small molecule S9a was derived from an established tumor necrosis factor-alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- inhibitor -LRB- Canventol -RRB- by replacement of the isopropylidine group with a phenyl ring.
S9a at 10 to 100 nM inhibited HIV production as potently as 3' - azido-3' - deoxythymidine -LRB- AZT -RRB-, an inhibitor of viral reverse transcriptase.
Furthermore, S9a and AZT in combination, at noncytoxic concentrations strongly inhibited HIV-1 replication that was more than additive and substantially prolonged the appearance of virus both in acutely infected CD4 + lymphocytes -LRB- SupT -RRB- in culture and in peripheral blood mononuclear cells -LRB- PBMCs -RRB- infected with a primary HIV-1 isolate.
S9a inhibited TNF-alpha promoter-driven reporter gene activity.
S9a was superior to the first generation compound Canventol, which was superior to the natural compound sarcophytol A, demonstrating that further structure-based enhancement of potency of these compounds is feasible.
Glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis and regulation of NF-kappaB activity in human leukemic T cells.
Glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis was investigated in glucocorticoid-sensitive 6TG1 .1 and resistant ICR27TK .3 human leukemic T cells.
Following glucocorticoid treatment of 6TG1 .1 cells, chromatin fragmentation was observed after a delay of 24 h..
Fragmentation was not observed in ICR27TK .3 cells containing mutant glucocorticoid receptors -LRB- L753F -RRB- that are activation-deficient but retain the ability to repress AP-1 activity.
As described in other systems, fragmentation required ongoing protein synthesis.
Dexamethasone treatment completely blocked 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate induction of nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- activity and elicited an increase in the amount of immunoreactive IkappaB alpha in sensitive 6TG1 .1 cells but not in resistant ICR27TK .3 cells.
Activation of E2F-mediated transcription by human T-cell leukemia virus type I Tax protein in a p16 -LRB- INK4A -RRB- - negative T-cell line.
The human T-cell leukemia virus type I -LRB- HTLV-I -RRB- is a causative agent of adult T-cell leukemia.
This 40-kDa polypeptide is able to interact with the tumor suppressor p16 -LRB- INK4A -RRB-.
Consequently, Tax can activate the signaling pathway that lead to the release of E2F that in turn induces expression of factors required for cell cycle progression.
In this paper, we demonstrate that Tax can also activate E2F-mediated transcription independently of p16 -LRB- INK4A -RRB-.
Indeed, when Tax is coexpressed with the E2F-1 transcription factor in CEM T-cells, which lack expression of p16 -LRB- INK4A -RRB-, it strongly potentiates the E2F-dependent activation of a reporter construct driven by a promoter containing E2F binding sites.
This stimulation is abrogated by mutations affecting the E2F-binding sites.
In addition, Tax also stimulates the transcription of the E2F-1 gene itself.
Using Tax mutants that fail to activate either ATF - or NF-kappaB-dependent promoters and different 5' truncation mutants of the E2F-1 promoter, we show that the Tax-dependent transcriptional control of the E2F1 gene involves, at least in part, the ATF binding site located in the E2F-1 promoter.
Nuclear factor-kappaB induction in CD45RO + and CD45RA + T cell subsets during aging.
An increase in the ratio of memory to naive T cells has been postulated to underlie immune hyporesponsiveness accompanying aging.
Our analyses of the induction of nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NFkappaB -RRB- in activated memory -LRB- CD45RO + -RRB- and naive -LRB- CD45RA + -RRB- T cell subsets from young and elderly donors has demonstrated that, regardless of donor age, memory T cells are not significantly altered in their responsiveness to TNF-alpha-mediated induction of NFkappaB.
Although treatment with TNF-alpha induced nuclear localization of NFkappaB in both memory and naive T cell subsets, irrespective of the age of the donor, the levels of induced NFkappaB were significantly lower in both subsets of T cells obtained from the elderly, when compared to those in young.
Examination of IkappaB alpha regulation revealed that TNF-alpha-mediated degradation of IkappaB alpha in both memory and naive T cells from the elderly was severely impaired, thus contributing to the lowered induction of the observed NFkappaB.
In addition, this age-related decrease in induction of nuclear NFkappaB correlated with decrease in intracellular IL-2 receptor expression and anti-CD3-induced proliferation of both memory and naive T cells subsets.
Retinoic acid inhibits CD40 + interleukin-4-mediated IgE production in vitro.
To elucidate the role of retinoic acid -LRB- RA -RRB- in anti-CD40 + interleukin-4 -LRB- IL-4 -RRB- - mediated B-cell activation, the effect of 10 -LRB- -12 -RRB- to 10 -LRB- -6 -RRB- mol/L RA was studied in anti-CD40 -LRB- 1 microgram/mL -RRB- + IL-4 -LRB- 5 ng/mL -RRB- - mediated proliferation and Ig synthesis by human peripheral blood mononuclear cells -LRB- PBMC -RRB- and B cells in healthy donors.
Anti-CD40 + IL-4-mediated proliferation of PBMC and B cells was inhibited by RA in a dose-dependent manner, with maximal inhibition of 62 % + / - 5 % in PBMC and 55 % + / - 4.4 % in B cells by all-trans RA, and 58 % + / - 6.7 % and 51 % + / - 4.7 %, respectively by 13-cis RA.
IgE synthesis was even more markedly inhibited by RA starting at concentrations of > 10 -LRB- -14 -RRB- mol/L for B cells and > 10 -LRB- -10 -RRB- mol/L for PBMC.
Maximal inhibition of IgE production for B cells was at 10 -LRB- -8 -RRB- mol/L for all-trans RA -LRB- 94 % + / - 1.8 % -RRB- and 96 % + / - 3.2 % for 13-cis RA.
Low concentrations of RA inhibiting IgE synthesis -LRB- 10 -LRB- -10 -RRB- mol/L -RRB- affected neither B-cell proliferation nor the production of IgA, IgG, and IgM.
Elucidation of the mechanism involved in this inhibition of IgE production shows that epsilon germline transcription is decreased by RA, whereas production of interferon-gamma -LRB- IFN-gamma -RRB- was not enhanced in the presence of RA.
The data show that unstimulated human peripheral B cells express mRNA of the RA receptor alpha, beta, and gamma.
Using retinoids with different receptor binding specificity -LRB- CD336, CD437, CD2019, CD367 -RRB-, dose-dependent inhibition of IgE synthesis was shown by all four derivates, but was most marked by an RA binding the alpha receptor with high specificity.
Taken together, this study shows that RA inhibits IgE production of anti-CD40 + IL-4-stimulated B cells in vitro.
Copyright 1998 by The American Society of Hematology.
Induction of Mn SOD in human monocytes without inflammatory cytokine production by a mutant endotoxin.
Endotoxin selectively induces monocyte Mn superoxide dismutase -LRB- SOD -RRB- without affecting levels of Cu, Zn SOD, catalase, or glutathione peroxidase.
However, little is known about the structure-activity relationship and the mechanism by which endotoxin induces Mn SOD.
In this study we demonstrated that a mutant Escherichia coli endotoxin lacking myristoyl fatty acid at the 3' R-3-hydroxymyristate position of the lipid A moiety retained its full capacity to coagulate Limulus amoebocyte lysate compared with the wild-type E. coli endotoxin and markedly stimulated the activation of human monocyte nuclear factor-kappaB and the induction of Mn SOD mRNA and enzyme activity.
However, in contrast to the wild-type endotoxin, it failed to induce significant production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha by monocytes and did not induce the phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of mitogen-activated protein kinase.
CD30 is a CD40-inducible molecule that negatively regulates CD40-mediated immunoglobulin class switching in non-antigen-selected human B cells.
We used our monoclonal model of germinal center maturation, CL-01 B cells, to investigate the role of CD30 in human B cell differentiation.
CL-01 cells are IgM + IgD + CD30 + and switch to IgG, IgA, and IgE when exposed to CD40L and IL-4.
The physiological relevance of this phenomenon is emphasized by similar CD30-mediated effects in naive B cells.
Expression of CD30 by these cells is induced by CD40L but is inhibited by B cell receptor coengagement and/or exposure to IL-6 and IL-12.
Transcription of a minimal promoter from the NF-IL6 gene is regulated by CREB/ATF and SP1 proteins in U937 promonocytic cells.
NF-IL6 is an important transcriptional regulator of genes induced in activated monocytes/macrophages, and NF-IL6 is the only CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein -LRB- C/EBP -RRB- family member whose steady-state mRNA levels increase upon activation of monocytes -LRB- 1 -RRB-.
We show that increased transcription of the NF-IL6 gene is responsible, at least in part, for induction of NF-IL6 mRNA following activation of U937 promonocytic cells.
We have identified a 104-bp minimal promoter region of the NF-IL6 gene that is sufficient for basal and activation-dependent induction of transcription in U937 cells.
This region contains binding sites for the cAMP response element-binding protein/activation transcription factor -LRB- CREB/ATF -RRB- and Sp1 families of transcription factors.
Each site is functionally important and contributes independently to transcription of the NF-IL6 gene in U937 cells.
Peripheral T lymphocytes from women with breast cancer exhibit abnormal protein expression of several signaling molecules.
We examined signaling molecules of peripheral blood T lymphocytes obtained from women with breast cancer.
In 6 of 14 patients, T lymphocytes displayed an impaired ability to translocate NFeB p65 -LRB- Rel-A -RRB- following activation by anti-CD3 and IL-2.
This observation was made despite normal cytoplasmic levels of the Rel-A protein.
We also detected abnormally low levels of the signaling molecules T-cell receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- - zeta, ZAP-70 and p56lck in 4 of 14 breast cancer patients, i.e., defects in T-cell signaling molecules.
T lymphocytes from 6 of the 14 patients also exhibited an increased expression of the dual specificity phosphatase, map kinase phosphatase-1 -LRB- MKP-1 -RRB-.
Abnormalities of I or more signaling molecules were found in 9 of 14 patients ; however, only 3 patients had T cells that exhibited all 5 defects.
Finally, despite impaired Rel-A translocation, T cells were capable of transcribing IL-2.
Molecular and cellular analysis of human immunodeficiency virus-induced apoptosis in lymphoblastoid T-cell-line-expressing wild-type and mutated CD4 receptors.
We have previously shown that the presence of the CD4 cytoplasmic tail is critical for human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- - induced apoptosis -LRB- J.Corbeil, M.Tremblay, and D.D.Richman, J.Exp.Med .183:39 -48, 1996 -RRB-.
We have pursued our investigation of the role of the CD4 transduction pathway in HIV-induced apoptosis.
To do this, wild-type and mutant forms of the CD4 cytoplasmic tail were stably expressed in the lymphoblastoid T-cell line A2 .01.
Apoptosis was prevented when CD4 truncated at residue 402 was expressed ; however, cells expressing mutated receptors that do not associate with p56 -LRB- lck -RRB- -LRB- mutated at the dicysteine motif and truncated at residue 418 -RRB- but which conserved proximal domains of the cytoplasmic tail underwent apoptosis like wild - type CD4.
The differences between wild-type and mutated receptors in the induction of apoptosis were not related to levels of p56 -LRB- lck -RRB- or NF - kappaB activation.
Initial signaling through the CD4 receptor played a major role in the sensitization of HIV-infected T cells to undergo apoptosis.
Incubation of HIV-infected cells with monoclonal antibody -LRB- MAb -RRB- 13B8-2, which binds to CD4 in a region critical for dimerization of the receptor, prevented apoptosis without inhibiting HIV replication.
Moreover, the apoptotic process was not related to Fas-Fas ligand interaction ; however, an antagonistic anti-Fas MAb -LRB- ZB-4 -RRB- enhanced apoptosis in HIV-infected cells without inducing apoptosis in uninfected cells.
Phosphatidylinositides bind to plasma membrane CD14 and can prevent monocyte activation by bacterial lipopolysaccharide.
Although bacterial lipopolysaccharides -LRB- LPS -RRB- and several other microbial agonists can bind to mCD14 -LRB- membrane CD14 -RRB-, a cell-surface receptor found principally on monocytes and neutrophils, host-derived mCD14 ligands are poorly defined.
We report here that phosphatidylinositol -LRB- PtdIns -RRB-, phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate, and other phosphatidylinositides can bind to mCD14.
Phosphatidylserine -LRB- PS -RRB-, another anionic glycerophospholipid, binds to mCD14 with lower apparent affinity than does PtdIns.
LPS-binding protein, a lipid transfer protein found in serum, facilitates both PS - and PtdIns-mCD14 binding.
PtdIns binding to mCD14 can be blocked by anti-CD14 monoclonal antibodies that inhibit LPS-mCD14 binding, and PtdIns can inhibit both LPS-mCD14 binding and LPS-induced responses in monocytes.
Retinoid X receptor and c-cerbA/thyroid hormone receptor regulate erythroid cell growth and differentiation.
Nuclear receptors are important regulators of erythroid cell development.
Here we investigated the impact of retinoid X receptor -LRB- RXR -RRB-, retinoic acid receptor -LRB- RAR -RRB-, and of the c-erbA/thyroid hormone -LRB- T3 -RRB- receptor -LRB- c-erbA/TR -RRB- on growth and differentiation of erythroid cells using an in vitro culture system of stem cell factor-dependent erythroid progenitors.
RXR, RAR, and c-erbA/TR-specific ligands were found to induce erythroid-specific gene expression and to accelerate erythroid differentiation in culture, with T3 being most effective.
Furthermore, while ligand-activated c-erbA/TR accelerated differentiation, unliganded c-erbA/TR effectively blocked differentiation and supported sustained progenitor growth in culture.
Additionally, to determine the impact of RXR for erythroid cell development, dominant interfering mutant RXRs, lacking the transcriptional activator functions AF-1 and AF-2, or AF-2 only, or the entire DNA-binding domain, were introduced into erythroid progenitor cells via recombinant retrovirus vectors and analyzed for RXR-specific effects.
It was found that expression of wild-type RXR and of the RXR mutants devoid of AF-1 and/or AF-2 supported a transient outgrowth of erythroid cells.
An allosteric drug, o, o' - bismyristoyl thiamine disulfide, suppresses HIV-1 replication through prevention of nuclear translocation of both HIV-1 Tat and NF-kappa B..
The efficacy of o, o' - bismyristoyl thiamine disulfide -LRB- BMT -RRB- was examined in detail against HIV-1 laboratory isolates -LRB- HTLV-IIIB, JRFL, and MN -RRB-, primary isolates -LRB- KMT and KMO -RRB-, and simian immunodeficiency virus -LRB- SIVmac251 -RRB- in vitro.
BMT inhibited the replication of HIV-1 in both laboratory and primary isolates in vitro.
In addition, BMT exhibited antiviral activity against SIVmac251.
Minimizing energy studies of BMT structure reveal that a trans-disulfide of thiamine -LRB- holo drug -RRB- disulfide -LRB- TDS, protodrug -RRB- is allosterically transited to the reactive twisted disulfide of BMT -LRB- allo drug -RRB- by o, o' - bismyristoyl esterification of TDS.
BMT inhibits nuclear translocation of both HIV-1 transactivator -LRB- TAT -RRB- and the cellular transcriptional nuclear factor-KB -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB-, resulting in the suppression of HIV-1 replication.
NF-kappaB only partially mediates Epstein-Barr virus latent membrane protein 1 activation of B cells.
The latent membrane protein 1 -LRB- LMP1 -RRB- of Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- is required for EBV-induced immortalization of human B cells and causes tumorigenic transformation of cell lines.
LMP1 expression induces phenotypic changes resembling B cell activation, such as cell size increase and up-regulation of cell surface activation markers.
LMP1 contains two domains that activate the transcription factor NF-kappaB, one through interactions with TRAF proteins and the other with the TRADD protein.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the importance of NF-kappaB induction in the up-regulation of the B cell activation markers ICAM-1 and CD71 by LMP1.
This study shows that expression of LMP1 activates transcription from p50/p65 - and c-Rel - responsive promoters, and that this activity can be completely inhibited by expression of a dominant inhibitory IkappaB mutant.
ICAM-1 and CD71 are nevertheless up-regulated by LMP1 in primary B cells and cell lines expressing the dominant IkappaB.
Furthermore, LMP1-induced cell size increase of primary B cells was unaffected by IkappaB expression.
Altered DNA-binding specificity mutants of EKLF and Sp1 show that EKLF is an activator of the beta-globin locus control region in vivo.
The locus control region of the beta-globin cluster contains five DNase I hypersensitive sites -LRB- 5 ` HS1-5 -RRB- required for locus activation.
5 ` HS3 contains six G-rich motifs that are essential for its activity.
Members of a protein family, characterized by three zinc fingers highly homologous to those found in transcription factor Sp1, interact with these motifs.
We show that the function of such closely related proteins can be distinguished in vivo by matching point mutations in 5 ` HS3 with amino acid changes in the zinc fingers of Sp1 and EKLF.
Testing their activity in transgenic mice shows that EKLF is a direct activator of 5 ` HS3.
Activated platelets induce monocyte chemotactic protein-1 secretion and surface expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 on endothelial cells -LSB- see comments -RSB-.
BACKGROUND : Platelet/endothelium interaction plays an important role in the pathophysiology of inflammation and atherosclerosis.
The role of platelets for monocyte chemotactic protein-1 -LRB- MCP-1 -RRB- secretion and surface expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- ICAM-1 -RRB- on endothelial cells has been assessed.
METHODS AND RESULTS : Monolayers of human umbilical vein endothelial cells were incubated with nonstimulated or ADP-activated platelets for 6 hours, and secretion of MCP-1 and surface expression of ICAM-1 were determined by ELISA and flow cytometry, respectively.
In the presence of ADP-activated platelets, both MCP-1 secretion and ICAM-1 surface expression were significantly increased compared with nonstimulated platelets -LRB- P < 0.02 -RRB-.
Activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- determined by electrophoretic mobility shift assay and kappaB-dependent transcriptional activity was enhanced in the presence of activated platelets.
In addition, ADP-activated platelets induced MCP-1 and ICAM-1 promoter-dependent transcription.
Liposomal transfection of a double-stranded kappaB phosphorothioate oligonucleotide, but not of the mutated form, inhibited MCP-1 secretion and surface expression of ICAM-1 on activated endothelium -LRB- P < 0.05 -RRB-.
Low CD3 + CD28-induced interleukin-2 production correlates with decreased reactive oxygen intermediate formation in neonatal T cells.
The capacity of neonatal T cells to secrete interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- has been reported to be variable.
We analysed IL-2 production in purified neonatal and adult T cells using polyclonal activator phorbol ester + calcium ionophore -LRB- PDBu + iono -RRB- or receptor-mediated anti-CD3 / anti-CD3 + anti-CD28 stimulation.
PDBu + iono induced equally high IL-2 levels in both groups and, when stimulated with plate-bound anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody -LRB- mAb -RRB-, the IL-2 secretion by neonatal cells was undetectable and adult cells produced low amounts of IL-2 -LRB- mean 331 + / - 86 pg/ml -RRB-.
The addition of anti-CD28 mAb to anti-CD3-stimulated cells markedly increased IL-2 production in both cell types, but levels of IL-2 in neonatal T cells remained clearly lower than those of adult T cells -LRB- respective mean values : 385 + / - 109 pg/ml and 4494 + / - 1199 pg/ml -RRB-.
As NF-kappa B is a critical transcription factor in the control of IL-2 expression, we next analysed its nuclear translocation in neonatal and adult T cells using the electrophoretic mobility shift assay and, because induction of reactive oxygen intermediates -LRB- ROI -RRB- is required for the activation of NF-kappa B, we also analysed levels of intracellular ROI in these cells using the ROI-reactive fluorochrome DCFH-DA and flow cytometry.
In neonatal T cells NF-kappa B activation and ROI formation after anti-CD3 stimulation were low compared with adult T cells and, although addition of anti-CD28 mAb increased induction of NF-kappa B and ROI formation, levels similar to those of adults were not achieved.
After PDBu + iono stimulation, the cells showed similar ROI formation and IL-2 secretion.
Transcription factor activation in lymphokine activated killer cells and lymphocytes from patients receiving IL-2 immunotherapy.
Administration of the cytokine interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- can result in therapeutic benefits for individuals with renal cell carcinoma and melanoma.
Here we report an analysis of the transcription factor families AP-1, Sp1, NF-kappaB, and signal transducers and activators of transcription -LRB- STAT -RRB- in cancer patients' lymphocytes before and after IL-2 immunotherapy, as assessed by a gel-shift assay.
An in vitro surrogate of IL-2 immunotherapy is the incubation of fresh peripheral blood mononuclear cells -LRB- PBMC -RRB- from healthy individuals in IL-2 for several days, resulting in the production of lymphokine-activated killer -LRB- LAK -RRB- activity in these cultures.
Prior to in vivo IL-2 administration, the typical binding pattern of transcription factors in PBMC from patients resembled that seen in fresh PBMC from healthy individuals.
Over a 3-week course of IL-2 therapy, in most patients the binding patterns of AP-1, Sp1, and NF-kappaB proteins changed to resemble those seen in PBMC activated by IL-2 in vitro.
However, the cells obtained from IL-2-treated patients did not have low-level constitutive expression of STAT binding factors as did LAK cells.
When these patient cells were further stimulated by IL-2 in vitro, additional differences in STAT induction patterns were noted.
These data provide further information on the molecular events occurring in immune cells generated through in vivo and in vitro administration of IL-2, and further document that there is not a precise congruence between PBMC activated in vivo and in vitro by IL-2.
A critical role of the p75 tumor necrosis factor receptor -LRB- p75TNF-R -RRB- in organ inflammation independent of TNF, lymphotoxin alpha, or the p55TNF-R.
Despite overwhelming evidence that enhanced production of the p75 tumor necrosis factor receptor -LRB- p75TNF-R -RRB- accompanies development of specific human inflammatory pathologies such as multi-organ failure during sepsis, inflammatory liver disease, pancreatitis, respiratory distress syndrome, or AIDS, the function of this receptor remains poorly defined in vivo.
We show here that at levels relevant to human disease, production of the human p75TNF-R in transgenic mice results in a severe inflammatory syndrome involving mainly the pancreas, liver, kidney, and lung, and characterized by constitutively increased NF-kappaB activity in the peripheral blood mononuclear cell compartment.
This process is shown to evolve independently of the presence of TNF, lymphotoxin alpha, or the p55TNF-R, although coexpression of a human TNF transgene accelerated pathology.
These results establish an independent role for enhanced p75TNF-R production in the pathogenesis of inflammatory disease and implicate the direct involvement of this receptor in a wide range of human inflammatory pathologies.
Activation of distinct transcription factors in neutrophils by bacterial LPS, interferon-gamma, and GM-CSF and the necessity to overcome the action of endogenous proteases.
Human neutrophils can be induced to actively transcribe a number of early-response genes, in particular those encoding cytokines, chemokines, and the high-affinity surface receptor for IgG, FcgammaRI.
Although little is known to date about the regulation of gene transcription in neutrophils, several indications point to a role for distinct transcription factors, such as members of the NF-kappaB and STAT families.
Unexpectedly, we found that conventional procedures employed to prepare cellular extracts cause the release of proteolytic activities that are normally stored in intracellular granules, resulting in the degradation of various NF-kappaB/Rel and STAT proteins.
To circumvent this problem, we developed an alternative procedure which allowed us to show that in neutrophils, LPS and TNFalpha induce a NF-kappaB DNA-binding activity which essentially consists of p50/RelA dimers, and that IFNgamma promotes the binding of STAT1 homodimers to the IFNgamma response region of the FcgammaRI promoter.
Moreover, we report that neutrophil stimulation with GM-CSF results in the formation of a STAT5-containing DNA-binding activity.
The PEBP2betaMYH11 fusion created by Inv -LRB- 16 -RRB- -LRB- p13 ; q22 -RRB- in myeloid leukemia impairs neutrophil maturation and contributes to granulocytic dysplasia.
Chromosomal translocations involving the genes encoding the alpha and beta subunits of the Pebp2/Cbf transcription factor have been associated with human acute myeloid leukemia and the preleukemic condition, myelodysplasia.
Inv -LRB- 16 -RRB- -LRB- p13 ; q22 -RRB- fuses the gene encoding the beta subunit of Pebp2 to the MYH11 gene encoding a smooth muscle myosin heavy chain -LRB- Smmhc -RRB-.
To examine the effect of the inv -LRB- 16 -RRB- -LRB- p13 ; q22 -RRB- on myelopoiesis, we used the hMRP8 promoter element to generate transgenic mice expressing the Pebp2beta Smmhc chimeric fusion protein in myeloid cells.
Neutrophil maturation was impaired in PEBP2betaMYH11 transgenic mice.
Although the transgenic mice had normal numbers of circulating neutrophils, their bone marrow contained increased numbers of immature neutrophilic cells, which exhibited abnormal characteristics.
In addition, PEBP2betaMYH11 inhibited neutrophilic differentiation in colonies derived from hematopoietic progenitors.
Coexpression of both PEBP2betaMYH11 and activated NRAS induced a more severe phenotype characterized by abnormal nuclear morphology indicative of granulocytic dysplasia.
These results show that PEBP2betaMYH11 can impair neutrophil development and provide evidence that alterations of Pebp2 can contribute to the genesis of myelodysplasia.
Fcgamma receptor-mediated mitogen-activated protein kinase activation in monocytes is independent of Ras.
Receptors for the Fc portion of immunoglobulin molecules -LRB- FcR -RRB- present on leukocyte cell membranes mediate a large number of cellular responses that are very important in host defense, including phagocytosis, cell cytotoxicity, production and secretion of inflammatory mediators, and modulation of the immune response.
Cross-linking of FcR with immune complexes leads, first to activation of protein-tyrosine kinases.
The molecular events that follow and that transduce signals from these receptors to the nucleus are still poorly defined.
We have investigated the signal transduction pathway from Fc receptors that leads to gene activation and production of cytokines in monocytes.
Cross-linking of FcR, on the THP-1 monocytic cell line, by immune complexes resulted in both activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB and interleukin 1 production.
These responses were completely blocked by tyrosine kinase inhibitors.
However, MAPK activation was easily detected by in vitro kinase assays, after FcR cross-linking with immune complexes.
Using the specific MAPK/extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase -LRB- MAPK kinase -RRB- inhibitor PD98059, we found that MAPK activation is necessary for FcR-dependent activation of the nuclear factor NF-kappaB.
Differential RNA display identifies novel genes associated with decreased vitamin D receptor expression.
To characterize further the function of the intracellular vitamin D receptor -LRB- VDR -RRB-, we have developed stable transfectant variants of a vitamin D-responsive cell line -LRB- U937 -RRB- which express either decreased or increased numbers of VDR.
In this study we have analyzed changes in gene expression associated with this variable VDR expression.
Further studies were carried out using differential RNA display -LRB- DD -RRB-.
Sequence analysis of DD products revealed two cDNAs with identity to known gene products : the catalytic sub-unit of DNA-protein kinase -LRB- DNA-PK -LRB- CS -RRB- -RRB-, and the peroxisomal enzyme 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type IV -LRB- 17beta-HSD IV -RRB-.
Northern analysis confirmed that expression of both mRNAs was reduced in cells with decreased numbers of VDR.
Potent inhibition of HIV type 1 replication by an antiinflammatory alkaloid, cepharanthine, in chronically infected monocytic cells.
Cepharanthine is a biscoclaurine alkaloid isolated from Stephania cepharantha Hayata and has been shown to have antiinflammatory, antiallergic, and immunomodulatory activities in vivo.
As several inflammatory cytokines and oxidative stresses are involved in the pathogenesis of HIV-1 infection, we investigated the inhibitory effects of cepharanthine on tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- - and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- - induced HIV-1 replication in chronically infected cell lines.
Two chronically HIV-1-infected cell lines, U1 -LRB- monocytic -RRB- and ACH-2 -LRB- T lymphocytic -RRB-, were stimulated with TNF-alpha or PMA and cultured in the presence of various concentrations of the compound.
HIV-1 replication was determined by p24 antigen level.
The inhibitory effects of cepharanthine on HIV-1 long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- - driven gene expression and nuclear factor kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- activation were also examined.
Cepharanthine dose dependently inhibited HIV-1 replication in TNF-alpha - and PMA-stimulated U1 cells but not in ACH-2 cells.
Its 50 % effective and cytotoxic concentrations were 0.016 and 2.2 microg/ml in PMA-stimulated U1 cells, respectively.
Cepharanthine was found to suppress HIV-1 LTR-driven gene expression through the inhibition of NF-kappaB activation.
Prostaglandin E2 Up-regulates HIV-1 long terminal repeat-driven gene activity in T cells via NF-kappaB-dependent and - independent signaling pathways.
Replication of human immunodeficiency virus type-1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- is highly dependent on the state of activation of the infected cells and is modulated by interactions between viral and host cellular factors.
Prostaglandin E2 -LRB- PGE2 -RRB-, a pleiotropic immunomodulatory molecule, is observed at elevated levels during HIV-1 infection as well as during the course of other pathogenic infections.
In 1G5, a Jurkat-derived T cell line stably transfected with a luciferase gene driven by HIV-1 long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB-, we found that PGE2 markedly enhanced HIV-1 LTR-mediated reporter gene activity.
Experiments have been conducted to identify second messengers involved in this PGE2-dependent up-regulating effect on the regulatory element of HIV-1.
The involvement of NF-kappaB in the PGE2-dependent activating effect on HIV-1 transcription was further confirmed using a kappaB-regulated luciferase encoding vector and by electrophoretic mobility shift assays.
Relationship between IkappaBalpha constitutive expression, TNFalpha synthesis, and apoptosis in EBV-infected lymphoblastoid cells.
In order to understand the role of NF-kappaB in EBV transformation we have established stably transfected IkappaBalpha into lymphoblastoid cells.
Two clones were obtained in which the loss of NF-kappaB binding activity correlated with the constitutive expression of the transgenic IkappaBalpha.
Protein latency expression was determined by immunocytochemistry.
Expression of surface markers, intracytoplasmic content of cytokines cell cycle analysis after BrdU incorporation and DNA staining with propidium iodide were studied by flow cytometry.
Percentage of apoptotic cells was determined by in-situ labelling of DNA strand breaks.
No significative changes in EBV latency nor in cell surface marker expression was found.
In contrast, intracytoplasmic TNFalpha levels were strongly reduced in transfected clones.
Furthermore, 30 % of IkappaBalpha transfected cells were apoptotic after 8 h of TNFalpha treatment.
This correlated with a strong reduction of BrdU incorporation after 24 h of TNFalpha treatment.
No effect was seen with non transfected cells or with cells transfected with a control plasmid.
Uncoupling activation-dependent HS1 phosphorylation from nuclear factor of activated T cells transcriptional activation in Jurkat T cells : differential signaling through CD3 and the costimulatory receptors CD2 and CD28.
CD3, CD2, and CD28 are functionally distinct receptors on T lymphocytes.
Engagement of any of these receptors induces the rapid tyrosine phosphorylation of a shared group of intracellular signaling proteins, including Vav, Cbl, p85 phosphoinositide 3-kinase, and the Src family kinases Lck and Fyn.
We have examined changes in HS1 phosphorylation after differential stimulation of CD3, CD2, and CD28 to elucidate its role in T cells and to further delineate the signaling pathways recruited by these receptors.
Unlike ligation of CD3, stimulation with anti-CD28 mAb or CHO cells expressing the CD28 ligands CD80 or CD86 did not lead to tyrosine phosphorylation of HS1 in Jurkat T cells.
Additionally, no tyrosine phosphorylation of HS1 was induced by mitogenic pairs of anti-CD2 mAbs capable of activating the transcription factor NFAT -LRB- nuclear factor of activated T cells -RRB-.
Costimulation through CD28 and/or CD2 did not modulate the CD3-dependent phosphorylation of HS1.
Thus, although CD3, CD28, and CD2 activate many of the same signaling molecules, they differed in their capacity to induce the tyrosine phosphorylation of HSI.
Furthermore, activation-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of HS1 was not required for NFAT transcriptional activation.
Downstream activation of a TATA-less promoter by Oct-2, Bob1, and NF-kappaB directs expression of the homing receptor BLR1 to mature B cells.
The chemokine receptor, BLR1, is a major regulator of the microenvironmental homing of B cells in lymphoid organs.
In vitro studies identify three essential elements of the TATA-less blr1 core promoter that confer cell type - and differentiation-specific expression in the B cells of both humans and mice, a functional promoter region -LRB- -36 with respect to the transcription start site -RRB-, a NF-kappaB motif -LRB- +44 -RRB-, and a noncanonical octamer motif -LRB- +157 -RRB-.
The importance of these sites was confirmed by in vivo studies in gene-targeted mice deficient of either Oct-2, Bob1, or both NF-kappaB subunits p50 and p52.
In all of these animals, the expression of BLR1 was reduced or absent.
In mice deficient only of p52/NF-kappaB, BLR1 expression was unaffected.
Thus our data demonstrate that BLR1 is a target gene for Oct-2, Bob1, and members of the NF-kappaB/Rel family and provides a link to the impaired B cell functions in mice deficient for these factors.
Inhibition of RNA polymerase II transcription in human cells by synthetic DNA-binding ligands -LSB- see comments -RSB-.
Multiple cellular DNA-binding transcription factors are required by HIV type 1 for RNA synthesis.
Two pyrrole-imidazole polyamides were designed to bind DNA sequences immediately adjacent to binding sites for the transcription factors Ets-1, lymphoid-enhancer binding factor 1, and TATA-box binding protein.
These synthetic ligands specifically inhibit DNA-binding of each transcription factor and HIV type 1 transcription in cell-free assays.
When used in combination, the polyamides inhibit virus replication by > 99 % in isolated human peripheral blood lymphocytes, with no detectable cell toxicity.
Signal transduction abnormalities in T lymphocytes from patients with advanced renal carcinoma : clinical relevance and effects of cytokine therapy.
Studies have demonstrated abnormalities of the CD3/T-cell antigen receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- and pathways of signal transduction in T lymphocytes from animals and patients with advanced malignancy.
Diminished expression of TCRzeta and p56 -LRB- lck -RRB- that are associated with the TCR and reduced nuclear localization of RelA containing nuclear factor kappaB -LRB- NFkappaB -RRB- complexes have been noted.
These defects have been described in T cells from patients with malignant melanoma, renal cell carcinoma -LRB- RCC -RRB-, ovarian cancer, and colorectal cancer.
To further characterize altered expression of TCRzeta, p56 -LRB- lck -RRB-, and impaired activation of NFkappaB, T lymphocytes were obtained from 65 patients with RCC, the majority of whom were receiving combination cytokine therapy -LSB- interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -2, IFN alpha-containing regimens -RSB- and 37 control individuals.
In 29 of these patients, levels of TCRzeta and p56 -LRB- lck -RRB- were determined by Western blots of T-cell lysates and semiquantitated using densitometry.
Relative levels were then correlated with a series of clinical variables including response to therapy, performance status, survival, disease sites, age, and others.
In another group of 28 patients -LRB- three individuals from the first group -RRB-, the frequency of abnormal NFkappaB activation was studied using electrophoretic mobility shift assays after activation of T cells with phorbol myristate acetate/ionomycin or anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody.
Changes in these signaling molecules during cytokine treatment were also investigated.
TCRzeta and p56 -LRB- lck -RRB- were detected in the peripheral blood T cells in 27 of 29 patients, and overall, reduced levels were noted visually in 12 of 29 -LRB- 41 % -RRB- and 13 of 29 -LRB- 45 % -RRB- individuals, respectively.
When levels were semiquantitated using densitometry, significant decreases of TCRzeta -LRB- P = 0.029 -RRB- and p56 -LRB- lck -RRB- -LRB- P = 0.029 -RRB- but not CD3epsilon -LRB- P = 0.131 -RRB-, compared with control levels, were found.
In patients treated with IL-2 / IFN alpha-based therapy, relative levels of TCRzeta increased significantly -LRB- P = 0.002 -RRB- on day 15 of cycle one compared with the baseline.
Correlations of TCRzeta or p56 -LRB- lck -RRB- levels with response or disease variables, except for lower TCRzeta levels -LRB- P < 0.001 -RRB- in the presence of bone metastases, were not found.
Abnormal NFkappaB activation after stimulation with phorbol myristate acetate/ionomycin and/or anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody was found in 59 % of patients -LRB- 17 of 28 -RRB- and was not accounted for by the advanced age of the study cohort.
Activation of NFkappaB in peripheral blood T cells was inducible during cytokine therapy in four of six individuals who displayed impaired NFkappaB activity prior to therapy.
This alteration in NFkappaB activation occurred in the presence of normal expression of TCRzeta-associated signaling elements.
Transcriptional regulation of lysosomal acid lipase in differentiating monocytes is mediated by transcription factors Sp1 and AP-2.
Human lysosomal acid lipase -LRB- LAL -RRB- is a hydrolase required for the cleavage of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides derived from plasma lipoproteins.
It is shown here that during monocyte to macrophage differentiation, the expression of LAL-mRNA is induced.
This induction is dependent on protein kinase C activity and protein synthesis.
The cell type-specific increase in LAL expression is further investigated in the THP-1 cell line with respect to transcriptional regulation.
The human monocytic leukemia cell line THP-1 differentiates into macrophage-like cells when treated with phorbol esters.
In order to determine the cis-acting elements necessary for both basal and phorbol 12-myristate-13 acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- - enhanced promoter activity, we performed deletion analysis and reporter gene assays.
A PMA responsive element has been identified between -182 bp and -107 bp upstream of the major transcription start site.
Gel mobility shift assays demonstrated that binding of Sp1 and AP-2 to the LAL promoter is increased by PMA in THP-1 cells.
Co-transfections with expression plasmids for Sp1 and AP-2 further emphasized the important role of these transcription factors in both basal and PMA-enhanced LAL expression.
IL-7 reconstitutes multiple aspects of v-Abl-mediated signaling.
Previous studies have shown constitutive activation of IL-4 and IL-7 signaling pathways, as measured by activation of Janus protein kinase -LRB- JAK -RRB- 1, JAK3, STAT5, and STAT6, in pre-B cells transformed by v-Abl.
Whereas IL-4 had little or no effect, IL-7 delayed both the apoptosis and cell cycle arrest that occur upon v-Abl kinase inactivation.
IL-7 also delayed the decreases in the levels of c-Myc, Bcl-2, and Bcl-xL that occur upon loss of v-Abl kinase activity.
IL-7 did not maintain v-Abl-mediated differentiation arrest of the pre-B cells, as activation of NF-kappaB and RAG gene transcription was unaffected by IL-7.
p21ras initiates Rac-1 but not phosphatidyl inositol 3 kinase/PKB, mediated signaling pathways in T lymphocytes.
p21ras is activated by the T cell antigen receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB- and then co-ordinates important signaling pathways for T lymphocyte activation.
Effector pathways for this guanine nucleotide binding protein in T cells are mediated by the serine/threonine kinase Raf-1 and the Ras-related GTPase Rac-1.
In fibroblasts, an important effector for the Ras oncogene is Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase -LRB- PtdIns 3-kinase -RRB-.
Activation of this lipid kinase is able to induce critical Rac-1 signaling pathways and can couple p21ras to cell survival mechanisms via the serine/threonine kinase Akt/PKB.
The role of PtdIns 3-kinase in Ras signaling in T cells has not been explored.
In the present study, we examined the ability of PtdIns 3-kinase to initiate the Rac-1 signaling pathways important for T cell activation.
The results show that Ras can initiate a Rac-1 mediated pathway that regulates the transcriptional function of AP-1 complexes.
PtdIns 3-kinase signals can not mimic p21ras and induce the Rac mediated responses of AP-1 transcriptional activation.
Moreover, neither TCR or Ras activation of AP-1 is dependent on PtdIns 3-kinase.
PKB is activated in response to triggering of the T cell antigen receptor ; PtdIns 3-kinase activity is both required and sufficient for this TCR response.
In contrast, p21ras signals are unable to induce Akt/PKB activity in T cell nor is Ras function required for Akt/PKB activation in response to the TCR.
The present data thus highlight that PtdIns 3-kinase and Akt/PKB are not universal Ras effector molecules.
Ras can initiate Rac-1 regulated signaling pathways in the context of T cell antigen receptor function independently of PtdIns 3-kinase activity.
