When U937 cells were infected with HIV-1, no induction of NF-KB factor was detected, whereas high level of progeny virions was produced, suggesting that this factor was not required for viral replication.
These results indicate that in monocytic cell lineage, HIV-1 could mimic some differentiation/activation stimuli allowing nuclear NF-KB expression.
Tandem copies of this 67-bp MnlI-AluI fragment, when fused to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase gene driven by the conalbumin promoter, stimulated transcription in B cells but not in Jurkat T cells or HeLa cells.
Footprinting analysis revealed that the identical sequence CCGAAACTGAAAAGG, designated E6, was protected by nuclear extracts from B cells, T cells, or HeLa cells.
In agreement with the results of gel retardation assays, tandem copies of the E6 motif stimulated transcription in ARH77 and Raji cells but not in Jurkat or HeLa cells.
Interestingly, the MnlI-AluI fragment could suppress the basal-level activity of the conalbumin promoter in both Jurkat and HeLa cells.
Thus, the novel enhancer element identified in this study is probably a target site for both positive and negative factors.
Here we show that the response of the HIV-1 LTR may be governed by two independent sequences located 5' to the site of transcription initiation sequences that bind either NFAT-1 or NF kappa B..
Since the IRF-1 gene is both virus and IFN inducible, an intriguing issue is raised as to whether the IRF-1 gene is functioning in IFN-mediated regulation of cell growth and differentiation.
Preparation and analysis of bone marrow cells from the chimeric mice indicated that the bone marrow is the effective site for specific depletion of the B-cell population.
TCF-1 contained a single DNA-binding HMG box most closely related to similar boxes in the putative mammalian sex-determining gene SRY and in the Schizosaccharomyces pombe Mc mating type gene.
Upon cotransfection into non-T cells, TCF-1 could transactivate through its cognate motif.
These results identify TCF-1 as a T cell-specific transcription factor, which might play a role in the establishment of the mature T cell phenotype.
Thus, it appears that the T-cell-specific activation of the proenkephalin promoter is mediated by NF-kappa B..
However, as NF-kappa B is ubiquitous and the transcriptional activation through the B2 site is T cell specific, yet another T-cell-specific factor which synergizes with NF-kappa B should be considered.
These results suggest that expression of c-jun, jun B and jun D genes might be involved in terminal granulocyte differentiation or in regulating granulocyte functionality.
Finally we explored the possible role of 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid as a regulator of arachidonic acid liberation demonstrating that endogenous 5-lipoxygenase activity modulates platelet-activating factor induced arachidonic acid release perhaps acting at the level of phospholipase A2.
Nucleotide sequence and PCR analyses demonstrated the presence of novel duplications or deletions involving the NF-kappa B motif.
these effects are probably mediated through the 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptor.
Most B lymphocyte lines expressed negligible levels of 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptor RNA and protein ; however ; analysis of a lymphoid/myeloid somatic hybrid suggested that suppression of expression of 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptor RNA in B lymphocytes may be a dominant characteristic.
They bind to the kappa B motifs with different relative affinities that may reflect their different contribution in the expression of various promoters.
However, these genes are not constitutively active in B lymphocytes, suggesting that other regulatory mechanisms must play a role in determining the patterns of expression.
Isolation of a rel-related human cDNA that potentially encodes the 65-kD subunit of NF-kappa B -LSB- published erratum appears in Science 1991 Oct 4 ; 254 -LRB- 5028 -RRB- :11 -RSB-.
Therefore the rel-related 65-kD protein may represent the p65 subunit of the active NF-kappa B transcription factor complex.
OBJECTIVE : The authors' objective was to investigate the possibility that glucocorticoid receptor changes may be involved in the dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal -LRB- HPA -RRB- axis in posttraumatic stress disorder -LRB- PTSD -RRB-.
The present data, along with other findings of HPA abnormalities in PTSD, support the possibility of a greater negative feedback sensitivity at one or more levels of the HPA axis.
We have investigated whether this antigen is a target structure for human T-lymphocytes.
Expression of full-length and mutant cDNA clones in bacteria reveal that the single HMG motif, which is predicted to contain two extended alpha-helical segments, is sufficient to direct the sequence-specific binding of TCF-1 alpha to DNA.
Finally, we show that one of the isoforms encodes the previously described lymphoid-specific Oct2B protein which has been suggested to be involved in the function of the octamer motif in the context of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain -LRB- IgH -RRB- enhancer.
In patients suffering from Cushing 's syndrome, the circadian rhythm of plasma cortisol either disappeared or was inverted while that of GR did not significantly deviate from the normal subjects.
Thus, we postulated that the circadian modification of GR was independent of the diurnal fluctuations in plasma cortisol level or the circadian variations in environmental lighting and that the rhythmicity might be regulated by the ` circadian pacemaker' located in the human basal brain.
These diurnal variations in GR might serve to coordinate the reactivity of the target cells to cortisol because the diurnal rhythms of a GR-mediated response, the fractional inhibition of chemotactic migration rate of polymorphonuclear leukocytes by cortisol, were found to be synchronous with those of GR.
The expression of active NF-kappa B might therefore also be regulated by the extent of processing of p105.
We infer that the murine and human GATA-3 proteins play a central and highly conserved role in vertebrate T-cell-specific transcriptional regulation.
The T lineage-specific expression and the affinity for functional motifs in the TCR-alpha and CD3-epsilon enhancers imply an important role for TCF-1 in the establishment of the mature T cell phenotype.
These findings suggest that expression of the 1,25 - -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 receptor in lymphocytes is triggered by distinct and contingent signals, and that the protein and the mRNA encoding it are identical to the classical vitamin D receptor.
One explanation for the perpetuation of virus infection in macrophages could be sustained nuclear NF-kappa B expression.
This phenomenon, which is independent of tumour necrosis factor, is associated with HIV replication, and is thus likely to explain at least in part the perpetuation of HIV infection in monocytes.
It is very likely that these domains bind megakaryocyte-specific nuclear proteins acting as positive transcription factors.
These findings indicate that corticosteroid resistance in bronchial asthma can not be explained by abnormalities in corticosteroid receptor characteristics.
These results indicate that the demonstration of hormone receptor proteins in cells from malignant effusions is possible and that there is a correlation with the status of the primary site of cancer.
The induction of AP1 by okadaic acid suggests that protein phosphatases 1 and 2A -LRB- PP1 and PP2A -RRB- may be involved in T cell activation as important negative regulators of the transcription factor AP1.
This finding suggests that the BZLF1 promoter may be regulated by the degree of squamous differentiation.
A comparison of in situ hybridization to EBV DNA and viral capsid antigen staining with BZ1 reactivity suggested that BZLF1 expression precedes rampant virus replication.
The inability to detect EBV in the lower epithelial layers of oral hairy leukoplakia raises questions concerning the nature of EBV latency and persistence in stratified squamous epithelium.
The mechanism by which TGF-beta inhibits Ig chain synthesis is unclear although it does not involve inhibition of the binding of NF-kappa B or Oct-2 to their respective target sequences.
To test the hypothesis that cortivazol acts in dex-resistant cells by making use of the residual GR found there, wild-type and dex-resistant clones were treated with various concentrations of cortivazol and induction of GR mRNA was studied.
Positive induction of GR mRNA might be one of the earliest crucial steps in the lysis of normal and dex-resistant CEM cells, or might serve as a marker for the process.
These data indicate that the NF kappa B sites of the HIV promoter are essential for its transactivation during HHV-6 -LRB- GS -RRB- infection.
By increasing HIV promoter activity in primary T lymphocytes, HHV-6 may consequently increase HIV replication, leading to an increase in the cytopathic effect on coinfected human T cells.
It can be deduced that the erythroid ALAS precursor protein has a molecular weight of 64.6 kd, and is similar in size to the previously isolated human housekeeping ALAS precursor of molecular weight 70.6 kd.
The mature mitochondrial forms of the erythroid and housekeeping ALAS isozymes are predicted to have molecular weights of 59.5 kd and 64.6 kd, respectively.
An analysis of the immediate promoter of the human erythroid ALAS gene revealed several putative erythroid-specific cis-acting elements including both a GATA-1 and an NF-E2 binding site.
These results suggest that the IRE motif in the ALAS mRNA is functional and imply that translation of the mRNA is controlled by cellular iron availability during erythropoiesis.
However they are not functional on a truncated TNF-alpha promoter, indicating that promoter context and cell type specificity influence the PMA inducible function of these NF-kappa B binding sites.
These findings support the conclusion that the interaction of 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 with its receptor on T-lymphocytes may play an important role in the regulation of granulomatous reactions, but because these receptors are expressed on different lymphocyte populations, the net effect of this potent immunoregulatory molecule is likely different in sarcoidosis and tuberculosis.
There is a single methionine codon-initiated open reading frame of 1,458 nt in frame with a homeobox and a CAX repeat, and the open reading frame is predicted to encode a protein of 51,659 daltons.
The HB24 mRNA was absent or present at low levels in normal B and T lymphocytes ;.
HB24 is likely to have an important role in lymphocytes as well as in certain developing tissues.
A potentially more common pharmacogenetic syndrome.
This is the third patient with severe FUra toxicity secondary to an alteration in pyrimidine catabolism and the second from our clinic population suggesting that the frequency of this genetic defect may be greater than previously thought.
Monitoring DPD activity may be important in the management of patients experiencing severe toxicity secondary to FUra chemotherapy.
Taken together, the results indicate that M-CSF treatment is associated with differential activation of multiple members of the jun/fos family and that expression of these genes could contribute to nuclear signaling mechanisms that regulate a specific program of monocyte differentiation.
Thus, Tax1 was suggested to replace growth signals, at least in part, by this mechanism.
Starting with a replication-incompetent molecular clone of human immunodeficiency virus type 1, lacking all the NF-kappa B and Sp1 binding sites present in the native long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB-, proviruses containing reconstructed LTRs with individual or combinations of NF-kappa B and Sp1 elements were generated and evaluated for their capacity to produce virus progeny following transfection-cocultivation.
These results suggest that the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 LTR possesses functional redundancy which ensures virus replication in different T-cell types and is capable of changing depending on the particular combination of transcriptional factors present.
The C-terminus has a putative protein kinase C phosphorylation site.
The MAD-3 cDNA encodes an I kappa B-like protein that is likely to be involved in regulation of transcriptional responses to NF-kappa B, including adhesion-dependent pathways of monocyte activation.
This suggests that diverse agents thought to activate NF-kappa B by distinct intracellular pathways might all act through a common mechanism involving the synthesis of ROI.
ROI appear to serve as messengers mediating directly or indirectly the release of the inhibitory subunit I kappa B from NF-kappa B..
It suggested that increase of ER levels play an important role in the pathogenesis of gynecomastia.
However, inhibition of HIV-1 replication appears not to be directly correlated with GSH levels.
This suggests that the cysteine deficiency in HIV-1-infected individuals may cause an over-expression of NF-kappa B-dependent genes and enhance HIV-1 replication.
NAC may be considered for the treatment of HIV-1-infected individuals.
Precursors of 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 enhance HIV-1 replication in proportion to their affinity for the 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 intracellular receptor, suggesting that 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 influences HIV-1 replication by mechanisms involving this receptor.
These studies may have important implications for the design of effective therapy of HIV-1 infection.
The detection of both M-CSF and c-fms expression by cells of the monocyte lineage has suggested that M-CSF may act by an autocrine mechanism.
The results suggest that M-CSF induction of M-CSF involves G proteins, PKC and NF kappa B..
The putative intracellular receptors for FK506 and cyclosporin are cis-trans prolyl isomerases.
Binding of the drug inhibits isomerase activity, but studies with other prolyl isomerase inhibitors and analysis of cyclosporin-resistant mutants in yeast suggest that the effects of the drug result from the formation of an inhibitory complex between the drug and isomerase, and not from inhibition of isomerase activity.
A transcription factor, NF-AT, which is essential for early T-cell gene activation, seems to be a specific target of cyclosporin A and FK506 action because transcription directed by this protein is blocked in T cells treated with these drugs, with little or no effect on other transcription factors such as AP-1 and NF-kappa B..
There was no difference in glucocorticoid receptor number or affinity between depressed patients and recovered or control subjects.
These data support the view of an impaired ligand-induced plasticity of glucocorticoid receptor regulation rather than the hypothesis of decreased glucocorticoid receptor numbers during depression.
Our data indicate that decrease of ER level in leukocytes may be related to the pathogenesis of type II diabetes in menopausal period.
CONCLUSIONS Hypercortisolaemia does not down-regulate the lymphocyte glucocorticoid receptors in anorexia nervosa and a post-receptor defect might be involved in peripheral tissue resistance to the effects of glucocorticoid hormones in undernutrition.
In this group, however, receptor levels and morning plasma cortisol values showed a negative correlation, indicating a subtle down-regulatory effect.
The results suggested that GcR in hMNL are down-regulated by synthetic steroids given in vivo, but they showed very mild down-regulation in hypercortisolemic patients suffering from Cushing 's disease.
This indicates that the beneficial effects of ketoconazole in Cushing 's disease are due to adrenal cortisol suppression and not to interaction with GcR of target cells, and that the process of GcR regulation in hMNL is a complex phenomenon awaiting further elucidation.
Tax expression in Jurkat T cells may alter the stoichiometry of NF-kappa B DNA binding proteins and thus change the expression of NF-kappa B-regulated promoters.
In this paper, we demonstrate that the B2 factor is expressed in the cytosol of monocytes and macrophages as a DNA-binding protein, indicating that it is not associated with an inhibitor -LRB- IKB -RRB-.
DNA-binding properties of HIV-TF1 suggested that HIV-TF1 might be identical or related to USF.
Interestingly, treatment of purified HIV-TF1 by phosphatase greatly reduced its DNA-binding activity, suggesting that phosphorylation of HIV-TF1 was essential for DNA binding.
These results suggest that HIV-TF1 is involved in transcriptional regulation of HIV-1.
The latter `` nuclear factor for activated T cells '' likely contributes to the tissue specificity of IL-2 gene expression.
Only the activities for NF-AT and AP-1 sites require two signals for optimal induction, i.e., PMA plus either lectin or antibody to the CD3 or CD28 surface molecules.
The larger crossreacting protein exhibited an electrophoretic mobility of 80 kDa, was localized in the cell cytosol, and appeared to be specific for activated lymphocytes since it was not detected in several other human cells including monocytes.
These are prominent enzymes in the endocytic pathway through which soluble protein Ag enter APC, and resistant segments in Ag may, therefore, be expected to contain more T-cell determinants than susceptible segments.
Such a process may have fundamental implications in AIDS pathogenesis in vivo and may be important in disease progression induced by opportunistic infections directly or indirectly involving macrophages.
Furthermore, an antiserum against KBF1 -LRB- identical to 50 kDa NF-kappa B protein -RRB- reacted with the p50 of NF-GM2, indicating that the NF-GM2 polypeptide can not be immunologically differentiated from the 50 kDa subunit of NF-kappa B..
This suggests that the activation mechanism of the GM-CSF gene through the GM2/GC-box sequence is different from that of genes carrying the kappa B enhancer alone.
An age-related decrease in the number of GR was suggested between subjects younger than 20 years and elderly subjects ;.
Eight patients with dermatomyositis/polymyositis were examined to determine whether the number of GR in MNL could be down-regulated by their cognate ligands.
These studies suggest that interaction of CD2 with its natural ligand, LFA-3, may play a role in regulation of HIV expression.
The involvement of ion channels in B and T lymphocyte activation is supported by many reports of changes in ion fluxes and membrane potential after mitogen binding.
Inasmuch as the change in membrane potential is dependent on elevation of free cytosolic calcium, the hyperpolarization is presumably through opening of Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - stimulated K + channels.
These results imply that membrane potential changes secondary to the ligand-dependent opening of Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - activated K + channels are not involved in B and T lymphocyte activation and mitogenesis.
Addition of KCl resulted in less DNA binding either due to blockage of DNA-receptor complex formation or disruption of the complexes.
Together these studies indicate that hGR synthesized in rabbit reticulocyte lysates displays many of the same properties, including GRE-specific DNA binding, observed for glucocorticoid receptor present in cytosolic extracts of mammalian cells and tissues.
Similarities between the effects of dexamethasone and RU486 suggest that the antiglucocorticoid properties of RU486 do not occur at the level of specific DNA binding.
the former seems to be related to the 50 kD polypeptide of NF-kB.
These results indicate that lymphocyte-specific factors binding to the TCEd are involved in the control of T cell specific-transcription of the Il-2 gene.
Although monocytic cells can provide a reservoir for viral production in vivo, their regulation of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- transcription can be either latent, restricted, or productive.
In addition, treatment of these nuclear extracts with sodium deoxycholate restored their ability to form the heterodimer, suggesting the presence of an inhibitor of NF-kappa B activity.
Binding of the 65-kDa plus 50-kDa heterodimer to the HIV-1 enhancer can be negatively regulated in monocytes, providing one mechanism restricting HIV-1 gene expression.
A human putative lymphocyte G0/G1 switch gene containing a CpG-rich island encodes a small basic protein with the potential to be phosphorylated.
Genes actively involved in the G0/G1 switch -LRB- G0S genes -RRB- may be differentially expressed during the lectin-induced switch of lymphocytes from the G0 to the G1 phases of the cell cycle.
This paper presents studies of G0S2, a member of a set of putative G0S genes, for which cDNAs were cloned and selected on the basis of differential cDNA hybridization.
The gene contains a CpG-rich island suggesting expression in the germ line.
There is a suitably located TATA box, but potential sites for CCAAT-box binding factors are far upstream, embedded in a 42-nucleotide repeat element.
Potential sites for transcription factors AP1, AP2, and AP3 are consistent with rapid transcriptional activation in response to inducing agents.
In this study we demonstrate that a subfragment -LRB- C26 -RRB- in the region between the 21-bp elements is involved in trans-activation by p40tax, possibly through binding to an NF-kappa B-like nuclear factor or factors.
These findings therefore suggest that the HTLV-I enhancer contains multiple functional elements, including binding sites for at least CREB - and NF-kappa B-like factors, which synergistically cooperate in activation of the HTLV-I enhancer in response to p40tax.
Our results also demonstrate that TPA-dependent activation of the HTLV-I enhancer may be mediated through the C26 element.
The c-erbA-dependent activation of this CAII reporter construct could only be suppressed by very high amounts of v-erbA.
Our results suggest that overexpression of v-erbA is required for its function as an oncoprotein.
The finding that dexamethasone has no effect on TPA-induced activation of PKC suggests that this glucocorticoid inhibits signals downstream or parallel to this enzyme.
Increases in CAT activity during transient expression of these constructs in TPA-treated U-937 cells could be assigned to the region -LRB- -97 to -20 -RRB- of the promoter that contains the AP-1 binding site.
These findings suggest that dexamethasone down-regulates TPA-induced transcription of the c-jun gene during monocytic differentiation by inhibiting activation of the AP-1 site.
The other factor bound to a putative AP-1 recognition sequence predicted for the HIV-1 NRE.
Thus, each factor may function as a novel negative regulator of transcription.
Thus these data suggest that the phorbol myristate-induced signal -LRB- prolonged protein kinase C activation ? -RRB- can not be inhibited by prior incubation with dexamethasone and it also protects the induced mRNA for the degradative action of dexamethasone.
This tight correlation between c-jun expression, the generation of AP-1 activity, and differentiation suggests a critical role for this gene and transcriptional complex during this process.
Furthermore, our results indicated that thymocytes have a constitutively active form of NF-kB, suggesting that they are activated in vivo.
This zinc-finger region, which is thought to bind DNA in a sequence-specific manner, is similar -LRB- greater than 80 % on the amino acid level -RRB- to two previously described transcription factors pAT 225/EGR1 and pAT 591/EGR2.
This structural similarity suggests that the pAT 133 gene encodes a transcription factor with a specific biological function.
This difference in gene regulation suggests distinct biological roles in the control of cell proliferation for the respective proteins.
Cotransfection studies with this cDNA indicate that it can repress basal promoter activity.
The apparent dual function of this protein is discussed.
These results suggest that clinical glucocorticoid resistance in chronic asthma does not reflect abnormal glucocorticoid clearance but may be due at least partly to a relative insensitivity of T lymphocytes to glucocorticoids.
These results demonstrate that the transcriptional activity of an AP-1-related protein is regulated by the cAMP-dependent second-messenger pathway and suggest that JunD and other AP-1-related proteins may play an important role in the regulation of gene expression by cAMP-dependent intracellular signaling pathways.
The most likely interpretation of our results is that both the ubiquitous transcription factor, OTF-1, and the B-cell-specific transcription factor, OTF-2, can activate U2 snRNA transcription.
High affinity binding of the radioligand with an apparent Kd of approximately 0.1 nM was found.
These data are perfectly compatible with major properties of steroidal effects on the sodium-proton-antiport in HML and thus very likely represent membrane receptors for aldosterone.
DNA binding by all four of these Rel-related factors is blocked by selective chemical modification of lysine and arginine residues, suggesting that both of these basic amino acids are required for binding to the kappa B element.
These findings suggest that reduced cysteine thiols play an important role in the DNA binding activity of this family of Rel-related transcription factors.
Partial cortisol receptor resistance might be less rare than previously thought.
Synergistic transactivation of the BMRF1 promoter by the Z/c-myb combination appears to involve direct binding by the Z protein but not the c-myb protein.
That the c-myb oncogene product can interact synergistically with an EBV-encoded member of the leucine zipper protein family suggests c-myb is likely to engage in similar interactions with cellularly encoded transcription factors.
These observations imply that TCF-1 is involved in the control of several T cell-specific genes and might thus play an important role in the establishment and maintenance of the mature T cell phenotype.
These results indicate that DCoH regulates formation of transcriptionally active tetrameric complexes and may contribute to the developmental specificity of the complex.
These data suggest a role for HSP27 in the signal transduction events of platelet activation.
Deletions upstream of the PRDII element increased transcription in the uninduced extract, indicating predominantly negative regulation of the promoter.
These experiments demonstrate that it is possible to modulate IFN-beta transcription in vitro but indicate that additional proteins may be required to fully activate IFN-beta transcription.
The design of combination hormonal and immunotherapeutic protocols for breast cancer patients may be facilitated by analysis of preclinical in vitro model systems.
We conclude that the cellular glucocorticoid receptor levels in peripheral blood leukocytes reflect in vitro responsiveness to glucocorticoids in mononuclear leukocytes from healthy males, and that the individual responsiveness may alter upon changes in the cellular levels of glucocorticoid receptor.
This method could be quite useful to detect not only CAG repeats in SBMA but also other polymorphic dinucleotide and trinucleotide repeats.
We propose that KBF1 is a competitive inhibitor of NF-kappa B and discuss how these factors may be involved in the transient expression of IL-2 and IL-2R alpha genes during the immune response.
Like the 105-kDa precursor, it contains an amino-terminal Rel-related domain of about 300 amino acids and a carboxy-terminal domain containing six full cell cycle or ankyrin repeats.
Transient-transfection experiments in embryonal carcinoma cells demonstrate a functional cooperation between p50B and RelB or p65 in transactivation of a reporter plasmid dependent on a kappa B site.
The data imply the existence of a complex family of NF-kappa B-like transcription factors.
The data indicate that decrease of ER levels in cell may involve in the pathogenesis of climacteric syndrome.
This may be the basis of the therapeutic effect on the disease.
Both normal and malignant cells contain gangliosides as important cell membrane constituents that, after being shed, may influence cells of the immune system.
The suppressive activity was lost in molecules, lacking the sugar moiety or the lipid moiety.
Gangliosides appear to act at an early step of activation in that TNF transcripts were reduced and the mobilization of the nuclear factor kappa B was blocked.
These data suggest that IL-4 promoter activity is normally down-regulated by an NRE via repression of the enhancer positive regulatory element.
These data may have implications for the stringent control of IL-4 expression in T cells.
These results indicate that activation of c-fos is involved in IL 6-induced differentiation of SKW 6.4 cells into IgM-secreting cells.
Possible mechanisms by which these proteins may regulate transcription of the epsilon-globin-encoding gene in erythroid and non-erythroid cells are discussed.
These studies indicate that HIV-1 infection of myelomonoblastic cells may select for a more mature monocytic phenotype and that unique subunit associations of NF-kappa B DNA binding proteins may contribute to differential NF-kappa B-mediated gene expression.
The AP-1 site at -150 bp, but not the NF-kappa B site, is likely to represent the major target of protein kinase C in the interleukin 2 promoter.
Stimulation of T cells with antigen results in activation of several kinases, including protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB-, that may mediate the later induction of activation-related genes.
The IL-2 promoter contains binding sites for nuclear factors including NFAT-1, Oct, NF-kappa B, and AP-1, which are all potentially sensitive to activation of PKC.
Our results indicate that the AP-1 site at -150 bp represents a major, if not the only, site of PKC responsiveness in the IL-2 promoter.
An acquired form of peripheral resistance to glucocorticoids was suspected.
the effect was significantly blunted -LRB- P less than 0.05 -RRB- in group 1 patients, which suggests that activation of glucocorticoid receptor is impaired as a result of the glucocorticoid receptor abnormality.
Resistance to glucocorticoids implies a complex change in immune-endocrine function, which may be important in the course of immunodeficiency syndrome.
These results indicate that LTB4 may regulate the production of different cytokines by modulating the yield and/or the function of transcription factors such as AP-1-binding proto-oncogene products.
Modulation of normal erythroid differentiation by the endogenous thyroid hormone and retinoic acid receptors : a possible target for v-erbA oncogene action.
The v-erbA oncogene, a mutated version of the thyroid hormone receptor alpha -LRB- c-erbA/TR-alpha -RRB-, inhibits erythroid differentiation and constitutively represses transcription of certain erythrocyte genes, suggesting a normal function of the proto-oncogene c-erbA in erythropoiesis.
Interestingly, T3 strongly enhanced the action of RA, suggesting cooperative action of the two receptors in modulating erythroid differentiation.
Likewise, enhanced expression of exogenous c-erbA/TR-alpha in erythroblasts rendered them susceptible to modulation of differentiation by T3, suggesting a similar function of both receptors.
this factor, termed IL-6 kappa B binding factor II, appears to contain the c-Rel homodimer and preferentially recognizes several IL-6 kappa B-related kappa B motifs.
These data suggest an important role for abnormalities in mineralocorticoid effector mechanisms in the etiology of preeclampsia and could be an useful marker for diagnosis.
a hitherto unknown mineralocorticoid may, thus, be responsible for the hypertension and altered MR status.
In the studies described in this report, we have identified two potential Ets binding sites, EBS1 and EBS2, which are conserved in both the human and murine interleukin-2 enhancers.
Furthermore, in vitro mutagenesis experiments demonstrated that inducible interleukin-2 enhancer function requires the presence of either EBS1 or EBS2.
Most of the AP-1 activity could be eliminated when the anti-AIM mAb was added to the culture medium in the presence of cycloheximide, suggesting that de novo protein synthesis is crucial for the induction of AP-1-binding activity.
Therefore, this pathway appears as a crucial step in the initiation of early T cell activation events.
Thus the inhibitory effect of insulin on the GR binding power is both dose - and time-dependent, which strongly suggests that GR is tonically controlled by insulin concentration change under physiological conditions.
Stable transfectants of HB24 were established that expressed high levels of HB24 mRNA and possessed an altered phenotype suggestive of activated T cells.
These data show that aged subjects have reductions of corticosteroid receptors that are not associated with increase of related steroids and that this situation probably represents a concomitant of the normal aging process.
The data suggest that differences in functional responses elicited in monocytes by all three factors may be dependent on different routes on nuclear signalling employed by the factors.
The decrease of the number of glucocorticoid receptors in patients with type IIa hyperlipidemia seems to be a compensatory response of cells culminating in activation of endogenous cholesterol synthesis.
Recombinant OTF-2 protein produced by in vitro transcription/translation could also enhance DRA gene transcription in vitro.
We conclude that a specific nuclear translocation mechanism exists for calcitriol in both cell types examined, most likely due to translocation of receptor proteins after hormone binding.
Enhanced activity of topoisomerases in nuclear extracts upon translocation of VDR might reflect interaction of both within the nuclear compartment, thus initiating DNA-unwinding, a prerequisite of transcription initiation.
The binding of NF -LRB- P -RRB- -LRB- a DNA binding protein that specifically recognizes the P sequence -RRB- to the P sequence was abolished when oligonucleotides carrying base substitutions were used, indicating that the NF -LRB- P -RRB- interaction is sequence-specific and that binding specificity of the protein paralleled the sequence requirements for IL-4 expression in vivo.
Together, this evidence strongly implicates BSAP in the regulation of the CD19 gene.
Our findings may indicate the presence of a reactivated virus hosted in these cells.
Statistically significant correlations could be established between patient/histopathology data and the results of the platelet aggregation assays, e.g..
could new regulatory pathways evolve by enhancer shuffling ?.
The promoters and enhancers of cell type-specific genes are often conserved in evolution, and hence one might expect that a given enhancer has evolved to work best with its own promoter.
While this expectation may be realized in some cases, we have not found evidence for it.
We propose that a generally permissive enhancer/promoter interaction is of evolutionary benefit for higher eukaryotes : by enhancer shuffling, genes could be easily brought under a new type of inducibility/cell type specificity.
Transfection of an Fc gamma RII-negative B-cell line with complementary DNA 's encoding the two splice products and various receptor mutants indicated that the insertion was responsible for preventing both Fc gamma RII-mediated endocytosis and Fc gamma RII-mediated antigen presentation.
In contrast, the insertion did contribute to the formation of caps in response to receptor cross-linking, consistent with suggestions that the lymphocyte but not macrophage form of the receptor can associate with the detergent-insoluble cytoskeleton.
Previous cotransfection experiments had demonstrated that ectopic expression of the lymphocyte-specific transcription factor Oct2 could efficiently activate a promoter containing an octamer motif.
This result indicates the involvement of either a B-cell-specific cofactor or a specific modification of a cofactor or the Oct2 protein in Oct2-mediated enhancer activation.
Mutational analyses indicate that the carboxy-terminal domain of Oct2 is critical for enhancer activation.
In this study multiple NF-kappa B related polypeptides ranging from 85 to 45 kDa were examined for their capacity to interact with the PRDII regulatory element of interferon beta and were shown to possess distinct intrinsic DNA binding affinities for this NF-kappa B site and form multiple DNA binding homo - and heterodimer complexes in co-renaturation experiments.
These experiments emphasize the role of NF-kappa B dimerization as a distinct level of transcriptional control that may permit functional diversification of a limited number of regulatory proteins.
Although NF-AT has not been cloned or purified, there is evidence that it is a major target for immunosuppression by cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB- and FK506 -LRB- refs 2-7 -RRB-.
NF-AT induction may require two activation-dependent events : the CsA-sensitive translocation of a pre-existing component and the CsA-resistant synthesis of a nuclear component.
On the basis of binding, reconstitution and cotransfection experiments, we propose that activation of NF-AT occurs in at least two stages : a CsA-sensitive stage involving modification and/or translocation of the pre-existing NF-AT complex, and a CsA-insensitive stage involving the addition of newly synthesized Fos or Fos/Jun proteins to the pre-existing complex.
We, therefore, wished to determine whether T3SO4 could mimic the action of thyroid hormone in vitro.
Propylthiouracil -LRB- 50 mumol/L -RRB- did not affect the action of T3SO4, suggesting that deiodination was not important for this activity of T3SO4.
Thus, it appears T3SO4 has no intrinsic biological activity, but, under certain circumstances, may be reactivated by desulfation.
Here, Stuart Schreiber and Gerald Crabtree review recent findings that indicate CsA and FK506 operate as prodrugs :.
However, the increase in ISGF3 activity ultimately correlates with the accumulation of ISGF3 gamma induced by IFN-alpha or IFN-gamma. -LRB- ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS -RRB-.
To determine whether specific members of the NF-kappa B family contribute to this effect, we have examined the abilities of different NF-kappa B subunits to act with Tat-I to stimulate transcription of HIV in Jurkat T-leukemia cells.
We have found that the p49 -LRB- 100 -RRB- DNA binding subunit, together with p65, can act in concert with Tat-I to stimulate the expression of HIV-CAT plasmid.
These findings suggest that the combination of p49 -LRB- 100 -RRB- and p65 NF-kappa B can act in concert with the tat-I gene product to stimulate the synthesis of HIV RNA.
The function of a putative NFAT-1 site in the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 enhancer has been analyzed.
The putative NFAT-1 region is not required for the response to anti-CD3 or to mitogens in T-cell, B-cell, or monocyte/macrophage leukemia lines, nor is it a cis-acting negative regulatory element.
First is an expansion phase prior to TCR rearrangement, which appears to be correlated with programming of at least some response genes for inducibility.
This phase can occur to some extent outside of the thymus.
However, the profound T cell deficit of nude mice indicates that the thymus is by far the most potent site for inducing the expansion per se, even if other sites can induce some response acquisition.
It seems that the rearrangement of the TCR gamma loci in the gamma delta lineage may not always take place at a developmental stage strictly equivalent to the rearrangement of TCR beta in the alpha beta lineage, and it is not clear just how early the two lineages diverge.
The loss of conventional responsiveness is probably caused by alterations at the level of signaling, and may be a manifestation of the physiological state that is a precondition for selection.
Negative selection in the cortex appears to be a suicidal inversion of antigen responsiveness : instead of turning on IL-2 expression, the activated cell destroys its own chromatin.
Perhaps murine thymocytes are denied this form of rescue because they shut off IL-2R beta chain expression at an earlier stage or because they may be uncommonly Bcl-2 deficient -LRB- cf..
Since the induction of NF-AT and AP-1 is induced by the same stimuli that stimulate IL-2 production, these results indicate that the immunosuppressant action of CsA and FK506 is exerted at the level of these trans-activating factors.
This induction, which seems to be an important component in the progression of acquired immune deficiency syndrome -LRB- AIDS -RRB-, may be due to increased transcriptional initiation, increased transcriptional elongation, or a combination of these processes.
This interaction is believed to be an important component of the mechanism of transactivation.
The bcl-2 gene, a repressor of lymphocyte death, is perhaps the best understood of the programmed cell death associated genes.
Since T-cell stimulation increases both intracellular Ca2 + and cAMP levels and activates protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB-, the possible involvement of these intracellular messengers in c-Fos and c-Jun induction was tested.
We conclude that stimulation with mitogenic lectins is sufficient to increase both c-Fos and c-Jun protein levels, AP-1 binding and AP-1 enhancer activity in Jurkat cells and that they act via mechanisms that could involve the activation of PKC.
Threonine 78 lies within the D-box of the v-erb A protein, a region thought to mediate receptor-receptor dimerizations, and is not in physical proximity to the serine at position 61.
It therefore appears that an indirect interaction occurs between these two sites and that this interaction is crucial for v-erb A function.
All of this evidence indicates that the transcription factor BSAP may not only play an important role in B-cell differentiation but also in neural development and spermatogenesis.
These results suggest that Oct-2 participates in transcriptional regulation during T-cell activation.
The relatively delayed kinetics of Oct-2 induction suggests that Oct-2 mediates the changes in gene expression which occur many hours or days following antigen stimulation of T lymphocytes.
-LSB- Changes in plasma interleukin-1 and their possible relationship with the changes in glucocorticoid receptor in aged long-distance runner -RSB-.
For the study of the changes in plasma interleukin-1 -LRB- IL-1 -RRB- and their possible relationship with the changes in glucocorticoid receptor -LRB- GR -RRB-, plasma IL-1 and GR in peripheral blood leukocytes in aged long-distance runner were measured simultaneously.
Possible relationship between the changes in IL-1 and GR in aged long-distance runner and its physiological significance are discussed.
Mutagenesis indicates that the 21 bp repeats can be subdivided into three motifs, A, B and C, each of which influences the level of tax activation.
These results suggest a microenvironment-directed, two-step model for GATA-1 expression in differentiating hematopoietic progenitors that involves -LRB- i -RRB- cycle-dependent initiation and -LRB- ii -RRB- lineage-dependent maintenance or suppression.
Hypothetically, on/off switches of lineage-restricted transactivators may underlie the binary fate decisions of hematopoietic progenitors.
We have examined the DRA promoter for protein-DNA interactions in the intact cell, which may mediate transcriptional activation.
This is most likely due to the presence of the lymphoid-specific OTF-2 factor.
These results suggest that interferon gamma functions on a poised promoter by altering weak, nonproductive interactions at the X boxes to strong interactions.
These findings provide direct in vivo evidence to strongly suggest that the modulation of X1 and X2 interactions is an important constituent of the interferon gamma induction pathway.
This further fraction is distinct from the mediator of transcriptional activation described previously and represents a second component in addition to general initiation factors that may facilitate a response to acidic activators.
Deletions in this promoter indicated that this upregulation was mediated through the NF-kappa B - but not the AP-1-binding motif, by bona fide p50/p65 heterodimers.
Analysis of cytosolic extracts indicated that NF-kappa B levels were increased in HIV-infected cells.
These observations indicate that during chronic HIV infection of U937 cells, continuous NF-kappa B -LRB- p50/p65 -RRB- translocation results in p105 promoter upregulation with subsequent cytosolic NF-kappa B accumulation, ready for further translocation.
Thus enabled to perform the test on multiple blood samples in parallel, we investigated cardiac infarction patients over a 12-day period to test if glucocorticoid receptor binding is altered in this ` stressful' disease.
Similar repeat motifs are found in a number of diverse regulatory proteins but the motifs of Bcl-3 are most closely related to those found in I kappa B proteins in which the ankyrin repeat domain is thought to be directly involved in inhibition of NF-kappa B activity.
Bcl-3 may therefore aid activation of select NF-kappa B-regulated genes, including those of the human immunodeficiency virus.
These findings demonstrate that interaction of both subunits of the heterodimeric NF-kappa B complex with DNA is required for DNA binding and transcriptional activation and suggest that transcriptional activation mediated by the individual rel-related proteins will differ dramatically, depending on the specific kappa B motifs present.
Taken together, our results suggest that OCA-B is a tissue -, promoter -, and factor-specific coactivator and that OCA-B may be a major determinant for B cell-specific activation of immunoglobulin promoters.
Taken together, these findings indicate that the induction of c-jun transcription by okadaic acid is controlled primarily by a transcriptional mechanism.
It is, however, still unclear whether LTB4 acts in this regard directly or indirectly by stimulating the release of chemotactic and inflammatory cytokines.
We furthermore demonstrate that this process involves activation of the transcription factor NF-chi B and, to a lesser extent, of NF-IL6, while the activity of the transcription factor AP-1, shown to otherwise confer IL-6 inducibility, appeared to be unaffected by LTB4.
The signaling events mediating this effect appeared to involve the release of H2O2, since LTB4 failed to induce NF-chi B or NF-IL6 in the presence of the scavenger of H2O2, N-acetyl-L-cysteine.
These results indicate that defective recruitment of NF-kappa B may underlie Nef 's negative transcriptional effects on the HIV-1 and interleukin 2 promoters.
Further evidence suggests that Nef inhibits NF-kappa B induction by interfering with a signal derived from the T-cell receptor complex.
Although both viruses establish latency in quiescent human-peripheral-blood T cells, the asymptomatic phase of HIV-2 infection may be more prolonged than that of HIV-1.
Thus, Elf-1 is a novel transcription factor that appears to be required for the T-cell-receptor-mediated trans activation of HIV-2 gene expression.
These results may explain differences in the clinical spectra of diseases caused by HIV-1 and HIV-2 and may also have implications for the design of therapeutic approaches to HIV-2 infection.
In summary, glucocorticoid receptor determination in patients with lupus nephritis may be a predictive clue for assessing responsiveness to glucocorticoid therapy.
To determine whether such transdominant Rev proteins could provide long-term protection against HIV infection without affecting T cell function, T leukemia cell lines were stably transduced with a retroviral vector encoding a transdominant mutant of the Rev protein, M10.
The inhibition of HIV infection in cells stably expressing a transdominant Rev protein, in the absence of any deleterious effect on T cell function, suggests that such a strategy could provide a therapeutic effect in the T lymphocytes of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome patients.
The endocrine events that are rapidly expressed -LRB- seconds -RRB- are due to a possible interaction with cellular membrane.
1. This study was designed to investigate the presence of estrogen type I -LRB- high affinity, low capacity -RRB- and type II -LRB- low affinity, high capacity -RRB- binding sites in human peripheral blood monocytes and the effects of danazol on these sites.
4. It is suggested that danazol has an anti-estrogenic action to the monocytes through the competition and suppression of estrogen binding sites as seen in the estrogen target organ.
This suggests that NF-kappa B expression may be necessary for the maintenance of the malignant phenotype and provides a therapeutic approach for HTLV-I-associated disease.
In addition, both SCL and GATA-1 undergo coordinate modulation during chemically induced erythroid differentiation of mouse erythroleukemia cells and are down-modulated during myeloid differentiation of human K562 cells, thus implying a role for SCL in erythroid differentiation events.
Studies of the function of SCL suggest it is also important in proliferation and self-renewal events in erythroid cells.
In erythroid K562 cells in which the HS2 enhancer is active, the HS2 sequence directs the synthesis of long enhancer transcripts that are initiated apparently from within the enhancer and elongated through the intervening DNA into the cis-linked CAT gene.
In directing the synthesis of RNA through the intervening DNA and the gene by a tracking and transcription mechanism, the HS2 enhancer may -LRB- i -RRB- open up the chromatin structure of a gene domain and -LRB- ii -RRB- deliver enhancer binding proteins to the promoter sequence where they may stimulate the transcription of the gene at the cap site.
A MEDLINE search of the English-language literature was conducted using the indexing terms ` immunology, calcitriol and vitamin D' to identify studies indicating a role for calcitriol as a primary immunomodulator.
The data strongly suggest an endocrine, autocrine and/or paracrine role for calcitriol in immune regulation.
4. Because concomitant elevations in the peripheral levels of these substances may occur, experiments were performed to determine the T-cell inhibitory effects of DEX together with either PGE2 or ISO.
c-Jun protein isolated from phorbol ester-induced cells did not target c-Fos for degradation, which suggests that c-Fos is transiently stabilized after stimulation of cell growth.
Because previous work has demonstrated that T cells from elderly individuals may display normal proliferative responses when activated via the anti-CD2 pathway, c-jun and jun B mRNA expression was also studied in anti-CD2-activated purified T cells.
These results suggest that the decreased IL-2 production and proliferative response displayed by PHA-activated PBL from elderly adults may be related to age-related changes in c-jun mRNA expression and in the ratio of c-fos to c-jun mRNA.
Analysis of a series of 5' - truncations showed several peaks of basal and PMA induced activity suggesting the presence of several positive and negative regulatory elements.
We have tested the hypothesis that cellular activation events occurring in T lymphocytes and monocytes and mediated through translocation of the transcription factor NF-kappa B are dependent upon the constitutive redox status of these cells.
Oxidative stress obtained by the addition of H2O2 to the culture medium of J.Jhan or U937 cells could not by itself induce NF-kappa B activation.
These observations suggest that TNF and PMA do not lead to NF-kappa B activation through induction of changes in the cell redox status.
It appears that a basal redox equilibrium tending toward oxidation is a prerequisite for full activation of transduction pathways regulating the activity of NF-kappa B-dependent genes.
REV LTRs work efficiently in human lymphoid cells, and are viable alternatives to promoters commonly used for expression of cloned genes.
They may also prove useful in the identification of new, ubiquitous cellular transcription factors.
Based on these results we estimate a 5-10 % difference in virus production of the LTR variants when compared to that of wild-type.
We therefore determined whether corticosteroids suppress inflammation by inhibiting endothelial expression of adhesion molecules for neutrophils -LRB- polymorphonuclear leukocytes -RRB-.
These studies suggest that antagonism by dexamethasone of endotoxin-induced inflammation is a specific instance of the general biological principle that the glucocorticoid receptor is a hormone-dependent regulator of transcription.
Tal-1 gene encodes a putative transcription factor with a basic helix-loop-helix domain and is known to be predominantly expressed in hematopoietic cells.
In addition, our results indicate that the tal-1 1A promoter, which contains two consensus GATA-binding sites, is active mainly in these lineages.
Altogether our results strongly suggest that GATA-1 modulates the transcription of tal-1 during the differentiation of the erythroid, megakaryocytic, and basosophilic lineages.
The viral trans-activators appear to target specific DNA binding protein such as NF-kB and Sp1 to cis-acting DNA site and promote lymphokine gene expression without TCR-mediated stimulation.
This factor is Oct-1 or an immunologically related octamer-binding protein, and it plays a role in coordinating the activity of several regulatory elements.
Furthermore, and despite a lack of sequence homology, the promoters of IL-3 and IL-2 share an organizational pattern of regulatory elements that is likely to be important for the T-cell-specific expression of these genes.
Thus, HTLV-I Tax, HTLV-II Tax, and c-jun transactivate PTHrP and may contribute to the pathogenesis of hypercalcemia in adult T-cell leukemia.
Since induction of the IL-2 receptor alpha subunit is a hallmark of lymphocyte activation, we suggest that p21ras naturally triggers B cell activation.
The decreased expression of immunoglobulin genes indicates that the ras oncogene blocks terminal differentiation to plasma cells, possibly by inhibiting the activity of lymphocyte-specific transcription factors.
These data indicate that IL-4 suppresses the induction of transcription factors in human activated monocytes.
HL-60 cells constitutively expressing an Egr-1 transgene -LRB- HL-60Egr-1 -RRB- could be induced for macrophage, but not granulocyte, differentiation.
These observations indicate that expression of Egr-1 is essential for and restricts differentiation of myeloblasts along the macrophage lineage.
Although the assay involves the dramatic loss of red cell production, it should be possible to define important regulatory domains that can then be assayed using less stringent systems, such as cell-free extracts for in vitro transcription.
The ideal situation would be analyses conducted in GATA-1 - erythroid cells.
It may be possible to produce such cells by first expressing the Epo receptor under the influence of a constitutive promoter and then targeting the GATA-1 gene.
If GATA-1 - red cells were available, the analyses would involve the actual transcription of or chromatin structure surrounding the globin genes.
Structure-function studies of the GATA-1 protein could be greatly simplified and a larger number of mutants studied.
However, the ES cell system can be used as an alternative until targeted erythroleukemia cells become available.
Other applications involve the introduction of other GATA-binding protein family members to determine whether they rescue the mutation.
We feel that these experiments are vital to understanding the function of GATA-1 during erythroid ontogeny.
Once we identify the functional domains of the GATA-binding proteins, we hope to learn what proteins GATA-1 binds to in the basic transcription machinery or in chromatin.
GATA-1 may be modified differently during development so that the locus control region can interact with different globin promoters.
We may find that one region of the protein is required for embryonic expression and another for adult globin gene expression.
Non-genomic effects of aldosterone on the sodium-proton-antiport have been shown in human mononuclear leukocytes which could be related to a new aldosterone membrane receptor.
The presence of the sulfhydryl agent dithiothreitol did not affect results suggesting the absence of disulfide bridges in the steroid binding domain of the receptor.
Thus, tyrosine phosphorylation is an important and perhaps mandatory proximal step in the activation of the protein kinase C signaling cascade in human B-lymphocyte precursors.
A human putative lymphocyte G0/G1 switch gene homologous to a rodent gene encoding a zinc-binding potential transcription factor.
G0S24 is a member of a set of genes -LRB- putative G0/G1 switch regulatory genes -RRB- that are expressed transiently within 1-2 hr of the addition of lectin or cycloheximide to human blood mononuclear cells.
All groups contain cysteine - and histidine-rich putative zinc finger domains and a serine-phenylalanine `` SFS '' domain similar to part of the large subunit of eukaryotic RNA polymerase II.
A CpG island suggests expression in the germ line.
Protein and genomic sequences show similarities with those of a variety of proteins involved in transcription, suggesting that the G0S24 product has a similar role.
The long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- region of HIV proviral DNA contains binding sites for nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB-, and this transcriptional activator appears to regulate HIV activation.
Recent findings suggest an involvement of reactive oxygen species -LRB- ROS -RRB- in signal transduction pathways leading to NF-kappa B activation.
The present study was based on reports that antioxidants which eliminate ROS should block the activation of NF-kappa B and subsequently HIV transcription, and thus antioxidants can be used as therapeutic agents for AIDS.
These results indicate that alpha-lipoic acid may be effective in AIDS therapeutics.
The potential clinical usefulness of these CL assays was suggested by the ability of both monocytes and IFN-U937 cells to respond to red cells, platelets or granulocytes sensitized with sera from pregnant women whose babies had either haemolytic disease of the newborn -LRB- HDN -RRB-, alloimmune thrombocytopenia or alloimmune neutropenia respectively.
In addition, monocytes and IFN-U937 cells both responded to red cells sensitized with antibodies against a variety of specificities of assumed -LRB- although not documented -RRB- clinical significance for blood transfusion recipients.
The results demonstrate that the simultaneous activation of PKC and elevation of cAMP leads to an enhanced AP-1 transcriptional activity in a T-leukemia cell line, suggesting that the previously observed interaction between the parallel signal transduction pathways may have functional consequences at the level of gene transcription.
These studies indicate that heterologous enhancer elements are capable of restoring Tat responsiveness to the HIV LTR in the context of directing reporter gene expression as well as in the production of infectious progeny virions.
They are part of the high affinity IgE receptor in mast cells, basophils, Langerhans cells, and possibly other cells ; a component of the low affinity receptor for IgG -LRB- Fc gamma RIIIA or CD16 -RRB- in natural killer cells and macrophages ; and part of the T cell antigen receptor in subsets of T cells.
However, the tissue specificity of this promoter is only partial because it is active in all of the hematopoietic cells tested here, regardless of whether they constitutively express Fc epsilon RI - gamma chain transcripts.
The second -LRB- -365 / -264 -RRB- binds to nuclear factors, which appear to be different in basophils and T cells, and acts as a negative element in basophils and as a positive one in T cells.
Hemin induction appears to nonspecifically increase the expression of transiently transfected genes in K562 cells.
One of the viral proteins involved in this process might be the Tat protein.
These results indicate that, among HIV1 gene products, the Tat protein appears to trigger monocytic differentiation, and suggests that this viral protein directs progenitors of the monocyte/macrophage lineage towards a differentiation stage in which production of viral antigens and virions might be more efficient.
Recombinant I kappa B-alpha -LRB- MAD-3 -RRB- inhibited the DNA binding activity of p65, p49/p65, and p50/p65 but stimulated the binding of NFKB2 -LRB- p49 -RRB- or NFKB1 -LRB- p50 -RRB-.
The enhancer also appeared to mediate phorbol myristate acetate induction in monocytes and IL-1 responsiveness in fibroblasts.
Deletion and base substitution mutations along with DNA binding studies demonstrated that the enhancer contained a minimum of three functional protein binding sequences, two of which appeared to be important for gene induction.
One of the essential proteins which bound to the enhancer was similar or identical to members of the C/EBP family of transcription factors required for both IL-1 - and LPS-specific induction of the IL-6 gene -LRB- i.e., the NF-IL6 proteins -RRB-.
When ligated to the murine c-fos promoter, however, the proIL-1 beta enhancer was inducible in phorbol myristate acetate-stimulated HeLa cells, suggesting the existence of a proIL-1 beta promoter-proximal requirement for tissue specificity.
Expression of PILOT, a putative transcription factor, requires two signals and is cyclosporin A sensitive in T cells.
We have identified a putative transcription factor, designated PILOT, with an identical dual signal requirement for expression.
We tested whether a peptide -LRB- BCR1/25 -RRB- encompassing the fusion region of the hybrid molecule pml/RAR alpha, which is selectively expressed by acute promyelocytic leukemia -LRB- APL -RRB- cells, can be recognized by human T lymphocytes in vitro.
Overexpression of cJun or JunD, but not JunB, also eliminates the requirement for PMA, indicating that many but not all Jun - and Fos-related proteins functionally activate NF-AT-dependent transcription in the presence of the cytoplasmic component.
Fos proteins are not needed for this reconstitution, and although JunB is not functional, it can participate in the NF-AT DNA binding complex.
Finally, we have partially purified the cytoplasmic component of NF-AT and show by elution and renaturation from SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis gels that it has a molecular mass between 94 and 116 kDa and may have multiple differentially modified forms.
This intracellular signaling complex potently stimulates kappa B-directed transcription from either the HIV-1 LTR or the IL-2R alpha promoter via the strong transactivation domain present in p65.
These inhibitory effects of c-Rel correlate with its DNA-binding activity but not with its ability to heterodimerize with p50, suggesting that c-Rel inhibition involves competition with p50/p65 for occupancy of the kappa B enhancer element.
Together, these findings suggest that one function of c-Rel is as a physiologic repressor of the HIV-1 LTR and IL-2R alpha promoters, serving to efficiently counter the strong transcriptional activating effects of p65.
In contrast to wild-type B cells, neither of the class II mutant cell lines could use the X box region to direct the expression of a transiently transfected reporter gene, indicating that the X box-dependent transcriptional pathway is defective in these cells.
To determine whether these different X1 box activities represented distinct DNA binding proteins or multimeric forms of the same factor -LRB- s -RRB-, protease treatment of the crude nuclear extracts followed by DNA-binding assays were carried out and demonstrated that B cell extracts contain at least two X1-specific factors.
In addition, two mutations between -93 and -76 and between -75 and -58 were utilized, since they affect the nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- - and Sp1-binding sites and were expected to diminish viral replication.
Our results suggest that while transfection analyses offer an adequate approximation of the effects of the LS mutations, the analysis of viral replication using a mutant viral stock presents a more accurate picture, which is sometimes at variance with the transfection results.
In the cell types tested, the LS mutations indicated an apparent requirement not only for the intact NF-kappa B and SP1-binding sites but also for several regions between -201 and -130 not previously associated with viral infectivity.
Together, these findings suggest that the nuclear localization signal and transactivation domain of NF-kappa B p65 constitute a bipartite system that is critically involved in the inhibitory function of I kappa B/MAD -3.
However, no loss of DNA binding activity is observed, presumably reflecting the unique C-terminal domain that is distinct from that present in NF-kappa B p65.
We have investigated whether a palmitate conjugate of a human monoclonal antibody specific for thyroglobulin -LRB- TG -RRB- could function as a surrogate TG receptor on blood mononuclear cells separated into fractions enriched for T cells or depleted of T cells -LRB- non-T cells -RRB-.
Furthermore, the significance of the present study is that the T cells, not the antigen-presenting cells, are likely to be the limiting element in the T cell proliferative response to TG and other thyroid autoantigens.
A dominant inhibitory ras mutant specifically blocked antigen receptor agonism, indicating that ras activity is required for antigen receptor signaling.
In addition, an inhibitor of PKC blocked both activated ras and phorbol ester stimulation, suggesting a role for ras upstream of PKC.
The addition of cycloheximide completely blocked the VitD3 induction of CD14 mRNA expression, indicating that the induction was dependent on ongoing protein synthesis.
The results suggest that there exists a functional antagonism between VitD3 and RA that may have important implications for the regulation of certain immune and inflammatory responses through their inverse effects on CD14 and CD23 gene expression.
The presence of an AP-1 protein in the NF-AT protein complex may regulate NF-AT-binding activity through protein-protein interaction.
Endothelial cells -LRB- EC -RRB- act as APC for resting PBL in vitro, and may have important roles in vivo in the pathogenesis of allograft rejection and delayed hypersensitivity.
In summary, our data suggest that changes in the composition of transcription factor AP-1 is a key molecular mechanism for increasing IL-2 transcription and may underlie the phenomenon of costimulation by EC.
We propose a model in which binding of a myeloid-specific factor -LRB- PU .1 -RRB- allows a general factor -LRB- Sp1 -RRB- to bind in a tissue-specific fashion thereby contributing to the myeloid-specific expression of CD11b.
Clonal assay showed that the suppression was irreversible and appeared analogous to the commitment of murine erythroleukemia -LRB- MEL -RRB- cells to terminal differentiation.
Thus the response of K562 cells to HMBA may provide a useful experimental system for studying the molecular mechanisms responsible for downmodulation of lineage-restricted transcription factors during hemopoietic lineage commitment.
We propose a model in which NF-kappa B and I kappa B-alpha mutually regulate each other in a cycle :.
These observations suggest a second pathway leading to NF-kappa B induction, in which processing of the precursors rather than phosphorylation of I kappa B plays a major role.
Transfection studies indicate that the I kappa B alpha gene is specifically induced by the 65-kilodalton transactivating subunit of NF-kappa B..
This established a clear difference between both stimuli, indicating that Rel is the functionally active factor.
We conclude from these results that the functional activity of members of the rel family is regulated by their interaction with DNA and that Rel can be a potent transcriptional activator on specific kappa B sites.
Overexpression of SRF in B cells causes the IL-2R enhancer to function as well as it does in T cells, suggesting that the high level of SRF binding in T cells is functionally important.
Bal 31 deletion mapping data suggested that one GATA-1 motif, one GT motif, and two NF-E2 / AP1 motifs together formed the functional core of HS-40 in the erythroid-specific activation of the zeta 2 globin promoter.
All sequence motifs within the functional core of HS-40, as mapped by transient expression analysis, appeared to bind a nuclear factor -LRB- s -RRB- in living K562 cells but not in nonerythroid cells.
These data suggest that transcriptional activation of human embryonic zeta 2 globin gene and the fetal/adult alpha globin genes is mediated by erythroid cell-specific and developmental stage-specific nuclear factor-DNA complexes which form at the enhancer -LRB- HS-40 -RRB- and the globin promoters.
Additionally, the region between bases -107 and -59 of the IL3 promoter containing putative AP-2 and Sp1 binding motifs appears necessary for basal level expression of the IL3 gene.
The data also indicate that CD2 receptor activation and phytohemagglutinin plus phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate stimulation augment T cell IL3 gene expression through the same cis - and trans-activating signals.
These results should contribute to a better understanding of the regulation of IL3 gene expression in human T lymphocytes.
Target antigens defined by autoantibodies in IDDM include insulin, a putative glycolipid that reacts with islet cell antibodies, and a 64,000-M -LRB- r -RRB- protein recently identified as glutamic acid decarboxylase.
Thus, autoreactive T-cells identify a novel antigen, p38 jun-B, in IDDM and appear to indicate subjects at risk for the development of clinical disease.
Cross competition experiments with an octamer sequence from the Ig heavy chain promoter, the BAT box, and a TA-rich sequence present in the CD21 promoter revealed that all three sequences bound the same nuclear proteins suggesting that the BAT box binding proteins were Oct-1 and Oct-2.
Together these results suggest that the BAT box binding proteins are important in the B cell specific expression of CD20 and perhaps CD21.
Stimulation of interleukin-1 gene transcription may be caused by the stimulation of transcription factor activities, including those of AP-1, by these protein phosphatase inhibitors.
These results show that protein phosphatase 1 and 2A inhibitors exert multiple effects on cytokine production in human monocytes and suggest that these two phosphatases play important roles in regulating interleukin-1 production.
Mutations and deletions of both sites indicate that only the association of CCACC/Sp1 and GATA binding sites can drive efficient and tissue-specific expression of this R-PK minimal promoter.
This regulated interaction may be important for the coordination of lineage-specific effector functions such as lymphokine production with cell cycle progression in activated T cells.
Thymocyte development and lymphocyte populations are unaltered, and clonal deletion of potentially self-reactive T cells is not impaired.
DNA-binding assays with cotranslated wild-type and truncated forms of EBF indicated that the protein interacts with its site as a homodimer.
Together, these data suggest that EBF represents a novel regulator of B lymphocyte-specific gene expression.
In contrast to the type I receptor, the type II IL-1R has a small cytoplasmic tail, and it is not clear whether this receptor is a signal-transducing or a regulatory molecule.
Our results indicated that the extracellular domain of the type II IL-1R was capable of functionally interacting with interleukin-1 and transmitting the resulting signal to a heterologous cytoplasmic domain.
At nucleotide 2,317 we identified a homozygous A for G point mutation that predicts an isoleucine -LRB- ATT -RRB- for valine -LRB- GTT -RRB- substitution at amino acid 729.
The isoleucine for valine substitution at amino acid 729 impairs the function of the hGR and is the likely cause of primary cortisol resistance in this subject.
The mechanisms underlying these rapid effects of aldosterone on electrolytes have been extensively studied in human lymphocytes, which thus may represent valuable tools in the delineation of the receptor-effector mechanisms involved.
It has been thought that the virally induced inhibition of IFN-MCP is secondary to the shutdown of cellular macromolecular synthesis that accompanies cytopathic virus infections.
This study determined if the Ad5-induced inhibition of IFN-MCP was independent of adenovirus -LRB- Ad -RRB- infection and secondary only to the expression of the Ad early region 1A gene -LRB- E1A -RRB-.
Because IFN-MCP was also blocked in Ad12 E1A-transfected cell lines, expression of one or more of the E1A-conserved regions may be necessary to inhibit IFN-MCP.
Our previous studies on the function of the HIV-1-encoded Nef protein suggested that Nef may be an inhibitor HIV-1 transcription.
To determine whether Nef affects the binding of cellular factors implicated in HIV-1 regulation, 32P-labeled oligonucleotides corresponding to the binding sites were incubated with nuclear extracts prepared from Nef-expressing T-cell lines that were not stimulated or were stimulated with T-cell mitogens.
These studies suggest that, by inhibiting AP-1 activation, Nef may play a role in regulating HIV-1 gene expression in infected T-cells.
Perhaps deoxycorticosterone or a hitherto unknown mineralocorticoid is responsible for the hypertension and altered MR-status.
The data show that hypertension in preeclamptic women can be treated by Urapidil without side effects or reflex-tachycardia.
Further studies will have to prove if Urapidil is suited for prepartal treatment of PIH as well.
In this study we analyzed the T cell receptor -LRB- TcR -RRB- delta transcripts expressed by CD3-CD16 + cells and we investigated whether these cells expressed the hGATA-3 T cell transcription factor and the recombination-activating gene -LRB- RAG -RRB- -1.
However, only that located at the 3' end appeared to be utilized in the 2.3-kb cDNA.
All NK clones and cell lines studied were found to express hGATA-3-specific mRNA, suggesting that hGATA-3 may be involved in the regulation of the unrearranged TcR delta gene expression in NK cells.
the selective appearance of this putative cell-specific transcription factor in B lymphoid cells seems to be attributable, at least in part, to the elevated E2A protein concentrations in these cells.
We asked whether dexamethasone -LRB- Dex -RRB- and cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB- inhibit IL-2 gene transcription by interfering with the activity of nuclear proteins that bind to the IL-2 promoter.
These results suggest that in human T lymphocytes both Dex and CsA inhibited IL-2 gene transcription through interference with transcription factors AP-1 and NF-AT.
We propose that, while maximum inhibition may involve interaction with both transcription factors, AP-1 is the primary target of Dex.
Lymphocytes from the site of disease suggest adenovirus is one cause of persistent or recurrent inflammatory arthritis.
It is concluded that adenovirus may be one cause of persistent or recurrent inflammatory arthritis.
Using magnetic beads with attached DNA containing the Escherichia coli lac operator, fusion proteins comprising the DNA-binding lac repressor could be affinity-purified and recovered by gentle elution conditions, such as with a lactose analogue or by enzymatic means using either deoxyribonuclease -LRB- DNase -RRB- or restriction endonucleases.
Taken together, our findings indicate that IL-2 induces gene expression of M-CSF in human blood-derived Mo and provide evidence for involvement of NF-kappa B in transcriptional regulation of this gene.
This difference in the number of binding sites could be due to differences in cell surface -LRB- UT-7 cells are 20 % smaller than the parental UT-7 cells -RRB- or in receptor turnover.
The number of gamma-positive cells and their fluorescence intensity were higher in UT-7 Epo than in UT-7 cells -LRB- 0 to 17 % barely positive cells and 23 to 40 % clearly positive cells, respectively -RRB-, indicating that the increase in globin mRNA observed in UT-7 Epo is due to both an increase of gene expression per cell and an increase in numbers of cells containing gamma-globin.
The levels of GATA-1, Epo-R and globin mRNA expressed were not affected by a 24-hour incubation of either cell line with Epo, GM-CSF or interleukin-3 -LRB- IL-3 -RRB-. -LRB- ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS -RRB-.
Despite a wide range, the mean GR count and affinity in MNC from septic patients did not differ from those in normal controls, suggesting that glucocorticoids could still be effective in the hemodynamic compensatory phase of sepsis.
In the transient-transfection assay, ICP0, but not ICP4, activated the HIV-1 long terminal repeat promoter region and the effect of ICP0 was greatly enhanced in the presence of the NF-kappa B binding proteins, suggesting that induction of the HIV-1 provirus involves cooperation between the HSV-1-activated cellular factor, NF-kappa B, and the virus-encoded transactivator, ICP0.
The microA motif was required for microB-dependent enhancer activity, which suggests that a minimal B cell-specific enhancer is composed of both the PU .1 and Ets-1 binding sites.
The induced differentiation occurs with down-regulation of c-fos protein and an accompanying up-regulation of RB protein expression, consistent with a possible need for up-regulated RB expression to maintain a given differentiated phenotype and suppress transcriptional activators that might typically be associated with proliferation.
Nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NFAT -RRB- is a transcriptional activator that binds to sequences in the interleukin-2 -LRB- IL-2 -RRB- promoter and is thought to be largely responsible for the T cell-specific inducibility of IL-2 expression.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays -LRB- EMSA -RRB- showed that specific NFAT binding activity could also be induced in human B cells.
Competition with an AP-1 motif or with anti-Jun and anti-Fos antibodies abolished binding to the NFAT motif in both T and B cells, indicating that Jun and Fos are critical for NFAT complex formation in both cell types.
However, when combined with unstimulated B or T cell extracts, full-length, but not truncated, Jun/Fos heterodimers were able to form an NFAT complex, indicating the presence of a constitutively expressed nuclear factor -LRB- s -RRB- in B and T cells necessary for the formation of the NFAT complex in both cell types.
We therefore propose a model whereby a core NFAT complex consisting of Jun, Fos, and a constitutive nuclear factor is formed in both T and B cells, but an additional factor and/or post-translational modification of a factor, missing in B cells, might be required for transactivation by NFAT.
Recent studies indicate that mutations in the androgen receptor gene are associated with androgen insensitivity syndromes, a heterogeneous group of related disorders involving defective sexual differentiation in karyotypic males.
Our data show that new mutations may occur in the androgen receptor gene leading to sporadic androgen insensitivity syndrome.
Molecular genetic characterization of the variant allele can serve as a primary tool for diagnosis and subsequent therapy, and can provide a basis for distinguishing heterozygous carriers in familial androgen resistance.
Their IL-2 transcription seems to be controlled solely by the transition from inactive to active functional state of a positive transcription factor binding to these promoter elements as well as its cytoplasmic or nuclear location :.
It is most likely that the presence of a silencer contributes to the more stringent activation requirements of naive CD4 + T cells.
The most prominent E2F activity in resting T cells -LRB- termed complex X -RRB- was abundant in both G0 and G1 but disappeared as cells entered S phase, suggesting a possible role in negatively regulating E2F function.
Complex X could be dissociated by adenovirus E1A with a requirement for an intact E1A conserved region 2.
However, X failed to react with a variety of antibodies against Rb or p107, implicating the involvement of an E1A-binding protein other than Rb or p107.
UV cross-linking experiments suggested that a distinct E2F DNA-binding protein is uniquely associated with the S-phase p107 complex and is not associated with Rb.
Together, these results suggest that E2F consists of multiple, biochemically distinct DNA-binding proteins which function at different points in the cell cycle.
Both overexpressed p65 and coexpressed p50 are cytoplasmic, whereas p65 delta is partly nuclear, indicating that the I kappa B induced by p65 can maintain NF-kappa B in the cytoplasm.
We will discuss recent experimental evidences suggesting that LPS might share a pathway of NF-kappa B activation with other inducers of the factor.
This common pathway may involve reactive oxygen intermediates -LRB- ROI -RRB- as messenger molecules.
The effects mediated by a combined stimulation of cAMP - and protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- - dependent pathways have been investigated in different cellular systems, and it has been shown that they may complement each other in activating cell proliferation and differentiation.
Analysis of intracellular Ca2 + mobilization suggested that the CD3/TcR-dependent signal transduction was impaired in PMA/Bt2cAMP-treated cells.
Neither Bt2cAMP nor PMA individually mediated these sustained effects, which therefore appear as a consequence of the interplay between both metabolic stimuli.
These findings indicate that antisense oligomers to p65 can be used to define the role of NF-kappa B in the activation pathways of neutrophils.
A number of our studies indicate that cAMP is the second messenger for the effects of MM-LDL cited above.
Agents which elevated cAMP were also shown to activate NF kappa B, suggesting a role for this transcription factor in activation of monocyte-endothelial interactions.
Although endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule -LRB- ELAM -RRB- mRNA synthesis can be regulated by NF kappa B, ELAM was not expressed and ELAM mRNA was only slightly elevated in response to MM-LDL.
Our findings suggest that next to lymphocyte infiltration, active regulatory events in the thyrocyte are responsible for the inverse relation between functional parameters -LRB- TSH-R, thyroid peroxidase, thyroglobulin, and c-fos -RRB- and immunological markers -LRB- MHC I and II -RRB-.
The cytokines interleukin-1 beta -LRB- IL-1 beta -RRB- and tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF-alpha -RRB- are released by mononuclear phagocytes in vitro after stimulation with mycobacteria and are considered to mediate pathophysiologic events, including granuloma formation and systemic symptoms.
After stimulation, two new kappa B-specific complexes were identified as NF-kappa B p50-p65 heterodimer and putative c-Rel homodimer or c-Rel-p65 heterodimer.
In parallel, CD2 + CD28 activation triggered a significant intracellular thiol decrease, suggesting that oxygen radicals are involved in the signaling pathway of adhesion molecules.
Together, these results suggest that NF-kappa B plays an important role in long-term activation of human primary T-lymphocytes via CD2 + CD28.
We demonstrate evidence suggesting that redox regulation of NF kappa B by Trx might be exerted at a step after dissociation of the inhibitory molecule I kappa B, a cytosolic-anchoring protein for NF kappa B..
These findings have suggested that cysteine residue -LRB- s -RRB- of NF kappa B might be involved in the DNA-recognition by NF kappa B and that the redox control mechanism mediated by Trx might have a regulatory role in the NF kappa B-mediated gene expression.
These results may also provide a clue to understanding of the molecular process of AIDS pathogenesis and its possible biochemical intervention.
Interaction between protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- - and glucocorticoid receptor -LRB- GR -RRB- - mediated signaling is suggested by the ability of the PKC activating phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB- to inhibit GR-dependent transcription of the mouse mammary tumor virus -LRB- MMTV -RRB- long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB-.
The effect was abrogated by the PKC inhibitor staurosporine, suggesting a role for PKC.
We propose that Jun plays a bifunctional role on GR-dependent transcriptional activation of GRE, selecting either synergistic or antagonistic activity depending on the cell-specific microenvironment.
In this regard, intracellular levels of c-fos appear to be influential.
This indicates an increase in either episomal DNA or concatameric linear DNA.
We propose from these results that the source of the fused fragment encompassing both ends of EBV DNA is a concatenated linear EBV DNA molecule, and that such a concatenated molecule most likely represents a replicative form of EBV DNA in productively infected cells.
Thus p59fyn could replace the calcium ionophore but not activation of protein kinase C..
Thus, the GATA-2 transcription factor appears to play a role in regulating the self-renewal capacity of early erythroid progenitor cells.
Tumor proliferative activity as evaluated by the monoclonal antibody Ki-67 seems to be an effective indicator of prognosis in breast cancer for DFS and OS.
The finding that HL-60 / vinc/R cells respond to TPA with induction of a monocytic phenotype, but not c-jun expression, suggests that c-jun induction is not obligatory for monocytic differentiation.
Taken together, these findings suggest that vincristine resistance confers insensitivity to TPA-induced differentiation and can include defects in PKC-mediated signaling events and induction of jun/fos early response gene expression.
To determine whether the defect in the patient 's T lymphocytes involved a trans-acting factor common to the affected lymphokine genes, we examined the ability of nuclear factors from the patient 's T lymphocytes to bind response elements present in the regulatory region of IL2.
To ascertain whether the abnormal NF-AT binding activity was related to an impaired function, we transfected patient and control T lymphocytes with constructs containing the reporter gene encoding chloramphenicol acetyl transferase -LRB- CAT -RRB- under the control of the entire IL2 regulatory region or of multimers of individual enhancer sequences.
These results indicate that an abnormality of/or influencing NF-AT may underlie the multiple lymphokine deficiency in this patient.
The presence of mRNA for these proteins in eosinophils and basophils suggests that gene transcription in these lineages may be regulated by GATA-binding proteins.
The current study examined whether alterations in glucocorticoid receptor -LRB- GR -RRB- binding contribute to poor response to glucocorticoid therapy in asthma.
Therefore, SR asthma may be due to more than one abnormality, the majority related to a reversible cytokine-induced reduction in GR binding affinity and the second related to an irreversible reduction in GR number.
These findings may have important implications for the design of alternative treatment approaches for recalcitrant asthma.
Pervanadate synergized with signals delivered by T-cell antigen receptor engagement or by a phorbol ester to induce interleukin 2 production.
Moreover, induction of tyrosine phosphorylation appears sufficient per se to initiate a complete activation programme.
Previous studies have suggested that gangliosides have an important role in cell signaling and recognition.
Furthermore, R24 treatment resulted in translocation of c-rel, but little or no NF kappa B p50 or p65, from the cytoplasm to the nucleus and an increase of NF kappa B binding complexes containing c-rel and p50.
R24-stimulated increases in proliferation, cytotoxicity, and cell surface protein expression could be blocked by cyclosporin and staurosporin, indicating that cyclophilin/calcineurin and protein kinase C may be involved in the R24 signaling pathway.
These results suggest that multiple biochemical pathways are involved in the activation of human T cells by R24.
In this study we used single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis to determine whether such mutations occur naturally in rhabdomyosarcomas.
Selection against such mutations may be the result of functional redundancy of these myogenic transcription factors.
This size discrepancy appeared to be due to cell-specific translational regulation, since overexpression of a retrovirally transfected SCL gene yielded the higher molecular weight forms in most cell lines -LRB- GP+E -86, AT2 .5, M1 -RRB- but only the 22 kDa form in the myeloid cell line, WEHI-3B / D +.
In addition, the present results indicate that SCL protein size was determined by regulation of translation in a cell-specific manner.
These findings suggest that Zp responds directly to changes in the activity of both PKC and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase.
These cellular gene regulatory molecules induced with anti-Ig may cooperatively play an important part in achieving efficient EBV activation as seen with anti-Ig treatment in B cells.
Tax-mediated transformation of T cells likely involves the deregulated expression of various cellular genes that normally regulate lymphocyte growth produced by altered activity of various endogenous host transcription factors.
This shift is apparently not caused by a recruitment phenomenon, because in FCS + culture, the total number of colonies is not significantly modified by RA addition.
Studies on RA time-response or pulse treatment in semisolid or liquid culture show that early RA addition is most effective, thus indicating that early but not late HPC are sensitive to its action.
These results indicate that RA directly inhibits the erythroid differentiation program at the level of early adult HPC, and may lead to a shift from the erythroid to granulocytic differentiation pathway.
Furthermore, maximal G -LRB- Anh -RRB- MTetra-induced IL-1 beta and IL-6 mRNA expression could be enhanced by co-stimulation with LPS or MDP, suggesting that different receptors and/or transduction pathways were involved.
These results indicate that G -LRB- Anh -RRB- MTetra induces IL-1 beta and IL-6 expression in human monocytes suggesting a possible role for G -LRB- Anh -RRB- MTetra in the release of cytokines during sepsis.
Both sIgM - and sIgD-crosslinking with antibodies induced elevation of cAMP levels, phosphatidylinositol turnover, PKC activation and expression of Egr-1 and c-fos mRNA, although sIgM-crosslinking was more effective than sIgD-crosslinking, presumably due to the higher expression of sIgM than of sIgD.
These findings suggest that the Egr-1 mRNA activating signals through sIgM and sIgD are protein tyrosine kinase - and PKC-dependent, but protein kinase A-independent.
Cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB- and FK506 rescued B104 cells from death induced by anti-IgM Ab, but did not affect the expression of Egr-1 and c-fos mRNA, showing that CsA and FK506 affect signal transducers differently from or downstream to these molecules.
Thus, the tyrosine kinase activated by G-CSF appears to directly transduce a signal to a protein which functions as a transcriptional regulator.
The IRF-2 promoter region contains a CpG island, with several GC boxes, a putative NF-kappa B-binding site, and a CAAT box, but no TATA box.
These data suggest that interferon regulatory factor 1 not only triggers the activation of the interferon signal transduction pathway, but also may play a role in limiting the duration of this response by activating the transcription of IRF-2.
These data provide the first demonstration in vivo that activation of a protein phosphatase can inactivate I kappa B, and suggest one possible explanation for mechanism-based toxicities associated with FK-506 and CsA by demonstrating that these drugs can inhibit the calcineurin-dependent activation of a virtually ubiquitous transcription factor.
These observations suggest that in addition to its normal role in T lymphocyte gene regulation, hGATA-3 may also play a significant role in HIV-1 transcriptional activation.
NF-AT is thought to consist of two components : a ubiquitous, inducible nuclear component that we have identified as Fos and Jun proteins, and a preexisting, T cell-specific component -LRB- NF-ATp -RRB- which is the target for the immunosuppressive agents cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB- and FK506.
These data suggest that E2 is one of the activating factors for NK/LGL cells.
Anti-TR55 antibody cross-linking in chronically infected U1 promonocytic cultures could only partially substitute for TNF-alpha-induced HIV-1 expression.
CONCLUSIONS : Our results demonstrated that HIV-1 infection can selectively influence the surface expression of TNF receptors, potentially influencing its own expression and altering normal immunoregulatory signal transduction.
Hence, Ca2 + binds to calmodulin, leading to the binding of calmodulin to calcineurin ; the activated calcineurin, in turn, may dephosphorylate the cytoplasmic subunit of NF-AT, resulting in its translocation from the cytoplasm into the nucleus to form a competent transcriptional activator.
The study of human disorders known as premature aging syndromes may provide insight into the mechanisms of cellular senescence.
Our results showed that the same molecular mechanisms of proliferation cessation could exist in fibroblasts characterized by replicative senescence and in lymphocytes derived from individuals with premature aging syndromes -LRB- Down -RRB-.
However, activation of the T cell lines leading to enhanced HIV-1 replication can be induced by antigens, mitogens, and cytokines -LRB- tumor necrosis factor alpha -LSB- TNF-alpha -RSB-, interleukin 1, and interleukin-2 -RRB-.
On the basis of these observations, it has been proposed that reactivation of latent HIV-1 harbored in chronically infected T lymphocytes, monocytes, or macrophages plays an important role in the pathogenesis of AIDS.
The enhanced initiation of transcription of the TF gene appears to require engagement of a 56 bp LPS Response Element, an enhancer that is engaged by both AP-1 type heterodimeric complexes as well as NF kappa B like heterodimeric complexes.
Dissociation of NF kappa B from Ig kappa B by cytokine and LPS stimulation, and possibly activated T cells, may represent a common pathway to induction of the TF and other inflammatory genes.
The aim of this study was to determine whether NF-kappa B is related to a particular cell type and/or differentiation step during immunopoiesis.
Using in situ hybridization on sections from non HIV hyperplastic lymph nodes, we found that the gene of the 105 kDa precursor of p50 was overexpressed in the light zone of germinal centers, with a network aspect, which suggested the involvement of follicular dendritic cells -LRB- FDC -RRB-.
Our results indicated that, in the context of T cell-dependent B cell immunopoiesis occurring in FDC clusters, p50 is mainly related to FDC with a massive overexpression in the nuclei, whereas p65 is expressed in a scattered manner in the nuclei of lymphocytes and c-Rel protein exclusively in the cytoplasm of lymphocytes from FDC clusters.
These results suggested that the two subunits of NF-kappa B and the c-Rel protein have different roles in different cell types during B cell immunopoiesis.
Sequences which control basal human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I -LRB- HTLV-I -RRB- transcription likely play an important role in initiation and maintenance of virus replication.
On the basis of the molecular weight, DNA-binding characteristics, and in vivo transactivation activity, we suggest that the previously identified DRE 1-binding protein, p37, is YB-1.
The hypothesis to be tested was whether or not humans exhibit a similar susceptibility to PCDDs/PCDFs with respect to the surface receptors found previously to respond to small doses of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin -LRB- TCDD -RRB- in Callithrix jacchus.
Furthermore, 68 triple-labellings with mAbs were performed on the cells of each volunteer to possibly generate further hypotheses.
It was evaluated whether any of the variables might be used as a biomarker of effects for this class of compounds.
There were two main goals : -LRB- 1 -RRB- to evaluate whether workers with a moderately increased PCDD/PCDF-body burden -LSB- 25-140 ppt TCDD or 104-522 ppt I-TE in blood fat -RSB- exhibit changes in the surface receptors of white blood cells, as observed in previous studies in non-human primates, and -LRB- 2 -RRB- to clarify whether persons at the upper range -LSB- 10-23 ppt TCDD or 30-90 ppt I-TE in blood fat -RSB- of the body burden reference values of a not particularly exposed population show detectable deviations in these immunological variables, when compared with persons at the lower and medium range -LSB- 1-3 ppt TCDD or 9-29 ppt I-TE -RSB- of these body burden reference values.
Altogether, the data do not provide any evidence to support an assumption that moderately increased body burdens of PCDDs/PCDFs in adults induce decreases in the cellular components of the human immune system.
These studies, the first to demonstrate induction of LT promoter activity over basal levels, indicate that HTLV-I tax causes low-level activation of both endogenous LT and the LT promoter, at least in part through activation of NF-kappa B..
Since one of the few transcription factors which have been implicated in the regulation of monocyte genes is the macrophage - and B-cell-specific PU .1 transcription factor, we investigated whether PU .1 binds and activates the M-CSF receptor promoter.
These results suggest that PU .1 plays a major role in macrophage gene regulation and development by directing the expression of a receptor for a key macrophage growth factor.
Increased natural killer cell activity correlates with low or negative expression of the HER-2 / neu oncogene in patients with breast cancer.
Increased expression of the HER-2 / neu oncogene in breast cancer correlates with decreased estrogen receptor concentration and seems to be an important prognostic factor.
The authors investigated whether there is a correlation between HER-2 / neu expression and immunologic parameters representing tumor defense in patients with breast cancer.
These data add further evidence to previous observations from the authors' laboratory that certain tumor characteristics may be associated with reactions of the host with breast cancer.
Although the mechanism of LTR activation remains obscure, several lines of investigation have suggested that it is a result of activation of the NF-kappa B transcription factor -LRB- s -RRB- following signaling events related to generalized DNA damage.
These findings, therefore, could have clinical significance to AIDS patients with malignancies who are undergoing radiotherapy and chemotherapy.
Although no proof yet exists of a role for these lesions in DLCL pathogenesis, the feature of the BCL-6 gene product, its specific pattern of expression in B cells, and the clustering of lesions disrupting its regulatory domain strongly suggest that deregulation of BCL-6 expression may contribute to DLCL development.
In addition to contributing to the understanding of DLCL pathogenesis, the identification of BCL-6 lesions may have relevant clinical implications.
The fact that BCL-6 rearrangements identify biologically and clinically distinct subsets of DLCL suggests that these lesions may be useful as markers in selection of differential therapeutic strategies based on different risk groups.
Since clinical remission has been observed in a significant fraction of DLCL cases, these markers may serve as critical tools for sensitive monitoring of minimal residual disease and early diagnosis of relapse -LRB- Gribben et al. 1993 -RRB-.
The mechanism by which NF-ATc enters the nucleus is unknown, and although it appears to require calcineurin, NF-ATc has not yet been shown to be an in vivo substrate of calcineurin.
Alternative mechanisms include the possibility that NF-ATc operates on some cytoplasmic anchor or that other proteins that are controlled by calcineurin carry out the nuclear import of NF-ATc.
It is supposed that some effects may be due to membrane alterations.
Thus, the glucocorticoid-induced membrane perturbation, the possibility to inhibit it by RU 486, and the inactivity of the structurally related progesterone, refer to relatively specific binding sites for the glucocorticoids in the membrane of erythrocyte ghosts.
These findings suggest that there is no primary and general impairment of glucocorticoid metabolism in the asthmatics, but the number of GCR in the asthmatics is lower than that in healthy controls.
The decrease of the number of GCR in asthmatics, we think, is related to heredity and repeated attacks of asthma.
Immunocytochemical analysis indicates that recombinant NFAT1 localizes in the cytoplasm of transiently transfected T cells and translocates into the nucleus in a CsA-sensitive manner following ionomycin stimulation.
Recombinant NFAT1 can mediate transcription of the interleukin-2, interleukin-4, tumor necrosis factor alpha, and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor promoters in T cells, suggesting that NFAT1 contributes to the CsA-sensitive transcription of these genes during the immune response.
Therefore, any event that enables T cells to become less responsive to IFN - gamma may potentially alter immune responsiveness to Ag.
Therefore, as T cells progress from primary TCR activation through IL-2-dependent proliferation, followed by secondary TCR stimulation, their responsiveness to IFN-gamma varies, and this may affect their ability to participate in an ongoing immune response.
Several methods for specific down-regulation of transcription factors are shown that may be relevant to treatment of human disease.
Although transcriptional factors AP-1 and nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NF-AT -RRB- are important for the normal induction of IL-2, it is unknown if the age-related decline in IL-2 production by activated human T cells may be associated with aberrancies in transcriptional regulatory proteins.
Thus, these results show that age-related impairments in the activation of AP-1 and NF-AT are closely associated with decreased expression of IL-2 and further suggest that aberrancies in the signaling pathways important for the induction of transcriptionally active c-Fos/c-Jun AP-1 may contribute to the impaired activation of NF-AT.
Collectively, these data suggest that NFAT can be activated and IL-2 can be produced in a calcineurin independent manner.
Deactivation of mononuclear phagocytes is critical to limit the inflammatory response but can be detrimental in the face of progressive infection.
Inhibition by IL-10 of proinflammatory cytokine release appears to occur at the level of gene transcription for TNF-alpha and both transcriptionally and posttranscriptionally for IL-1beta.
We have recently reported that IL-13R may share a component with IL-4R.
Our data suggest that IL-13 utilizes IL-4R and its signaling pathway, and JAK2 may play an important role in the function of IL-4R and IL-13R in colon cancer cells.
These results suggest that IL-4 may inhibit the transcription of the IL-6 gene by affecting NF-kappaB binding activity, while IL-10 may inhibit the IL-6 mRNA levels post-transcriptionally, without suppressing promoter activity.
These results suggest that CN is involved in the coordinated induction of the GM-CSF and IL-2 genes and that the CLE0 sequence of the GM-CSF gene is a functional analogue of the NF-AT-binding site in the IL-2 promoter, which mediates signals downstream of T cell activation.
It also suggests a novel specificity-conferring mechanism for mineralocorticoid action at the membrane level.
Studies of cell lines representing endocrine, fibroblast, and lymphoid lineages using polyclonal antisera to detect E2A proteins have suggested that significant E2A protein expression is restricted to B-lymphocytes.
Although it has been postulated that pituitary endocrine cells and pancreatic endocrine beta-cells share identical Pan/E2A complexes, native-Western analyses of pituitary and endocrine beta-cells detect Pan proteins in distinct cell type-specific complexes.
This reduced level of mRNA could then be elevated with subsequent interferon alpha treatment.
The effects of phorbol ester on MNDA mRNA appeared to be associated with induced differentiation since inhibiting cell proliferation did not alter the level of MNDA mRNA and cell cycle variation in MNDA mRNA levels were not observed.
This dispersed localization of a group of functionally related gene provides insights into the molecular mechanism of human genome evolution and their possible involvement in human diseases.
Cytogenetic studies of the primate Y chromosomes have suggested that extensive rearrangements have occurred during evolution of the great apes.
These results, combined with previous studies, suggest that the Y chromosome in great apes has a conserved region including the pseudoautosomal region and the testis-determining region.
We initiated this study to determine 1 -RRB- the prevalence of one or more breast tissue abnormalities in a group of women at high risk for breast cancer, and 2 -RRB- if the prevalence of biomarker abnormalities is greater in high risk than in low risk women.
This may be due to the low prevalence of overexpressed ER and the small number of controls.
A large prospective trial is needed to determine if one or more of these biomarkers, is predictive of breast cancer development.
The sequence between -1.7 and -0.2 kb linked to a heterologous thymidine kinase promoter failed to respond to PRL stimulation, suggesting that the activity of upstream PRL response elements may require an interaction with promoter-proximal elements.
Hence, the PRL-induced biphasic expression of the IRF-1 gene appears to be controlled by separate PRL-responsive elements :.
Pharmacological modification of cytokine dysregulation, therefore, has been suggested as a therapeutic modality for HIV-1 infection.
Dr. Dezube of Beth Israel Hospital -LRB- Boston -RRB- concisely reviews the state of our knowledge regarding the effects of pentoxifylline on expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, a cytokine known to influence HIV-1 replication and to play a possible role in the clinical manifestations of advanced infection with this virus.
Dezube, suggest that use of this agent in combination with antiretroviral compounds may prove useful in the treatment of patients with HIV-1 infection.
The data indicate that 10 -LRB- -6 -RRB- M DM increased T cell p50 NF-kappa B mRNA levels by four-fold compared to the levels obtained in the absence of DM.
Nevertheless, its properties seem to be most extensively exploited in cells of the immune system.
In vertebrates, five distinct DNA binding subunits are currently known which might extensively heterodimerize, thereby forming complexes with distinct transcriptional activity, DNA sequence specificity, and cell type - and cell stage-specific distribution.
They involve phosphorylation and proteolytic reactions and seem to be controlled by the cells' redox status.
Interference with the activation or activity of NF-kappa B may be beneficial in suppressing toxic/septic shock, graft-vs-host reactions, acute inflammatory reactions, acute phase response, and radiation damage.
The inhibition of NF-kappa B activation by antioxidants and specific protease inhibitors may provide a pharmacological basis for interfering with these acute processes.
Since recent studies have shown that lipopolysaccharide-induced tyrosine kinase activation is not required for NFkappaB nuclear translocation, we sought to determine whether NFkappaB translocated in the absence of tyrosine kinase activity was active in stimulating transcription.
These results suggest that, while lipopolysaccharide-induced expression of inflammatory mediators requires tyrosine kinase activity, tyrosine kinase activity is not obligatory for lipopolysaccharide signal transduction.
Activated Rac-1 could mimic activated p21ras to induce AP-1 but not to induce NFAT.
We questioned whether or not IL-10 and IL-4 affected the expression of transcription factors that are known to be involved in the control of the IL-6 transcription rate, namely activator protein-1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB-, nuclear factor IL-6 -LRB- NF-IL6 -RRB-, and nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB-.
Downregulation of LPS-induced AP-1 was accompanied, and thus possibly explained, by a reduced expression at mRNA level of the two major components of the AP-1 complex, namely c-fos and c-jun as determined by Northern experiments.
NF-IL6 mRNA levels were not affected by IL-10 or IL-4, suggesting that IL-4 affects binding activity of preexisting NF-IL6.
Here we report that human leukaemia cells carrying the translocation t -LRB- 17 ; 19 -RRB- rapidly died by apoptosis when programmed to express a dominant-negative suppressor of the fusion protein E2A-HLF, indicating that the chimaeric oncoprotein probably affects cell survival rather than cell growth.
The close homology of the basic region/leucine zipper -LRB- bZIP -RRB- DNA-binding and dimerization domain of HLF to that of the CES-2 cell-death specification protein of Caenorhabditis elegans suggests a model of leukaemogenesis in which E2A-HLF blocks an early step within an evolutionarily conserved cell-death pathway.
The identification of oriP and the EBNA2-dependent enhancer as the major positive cis elements involved in regulating Cp activity in LCL suggests that EBNA gene transcription is largely autoregulated by EBNA 1 and EBNA 2.
It has been suggested that the recruitment of Tax to the DNA positions Tax for interaction with the basal transcriptional machinery.
Our study suggests that the interaction of Tax with the transcription factor TFIIA may play a role in Tax-mediated transcriptional activation.
Although NGFI-B/nur77 is essential for TCR-mediated apoptosis in T-cell hybridomas, the reports on nur77 knock-out mice and nur77 dominant negative transgenic mice suggest that there is a functional redundancy among NGFI-B/nur77 family.
Assuming that 9-cis-retinoic acid -LRB- 9-cis-RA -RRB- inhibits TCR-mediated apoptosis, nur77 may cause apoptosis by monomer in the absence of 9-cis-RA and may inhibit apoptosis by heterodimer with RXR in the presence of 9-cis-RA.
These data suggest that abnormal myelopoiesis due to PML/RARalpha expression is an early event in oncogenic transformation.
Peptide vaccination can lead to enhanced tumor growth through specific T-cell tolerance induction.
Vaccination with synthetic peptides representing cytotoxic T lymphocyte -LRB- CTL -RRB- epitopes can lead to a protective CTL-mediated immunity against tumors or viruses.
Ad5E1A-specific CTL activity could no longer be isolated from mice after injection of Ad5E1A-peptide, indicating that tolerization of Ad5E1A-specific CTL activity causes the enhanced tumor outgrowth.
These results show that immunization with synthetic peptides can lead to the elimination of anti-tumor CTL responses.
LANDs were most often found in the nucleoplasm, but were also found at the nuclear membrane and in the cytoplasm, suggesting that these structures may traffic between the cytoplasm and the nucleus.
Selective activation of STAT5 homologues in addition to generation of lower molecular isoforms may provide specificity and control to genes expressed in response to cytokines such as GM-CSF.
Naturally processed forms of these structures are likely to occur given the importance and frequency of deamidation both in vitro and in vivo.
Moreover, since succinimide intermediates of deamidated peptides can occasionally be very stable, these peptides have the potential to act as altered self-Ags with significant implications for autoimmunity.
In addition, unwanted and potentially hazardous specificities may be elicited when using synthetic peptides in subunit vaccines in which succinimide residues may form spontaneously during storage or chemical synthesis.
Analysis of the molecular differences between primary anaplastic astrocytomas/glioblastomas and their subsequent recurrences, which are clinically indistinguishable, may provide better therapeutic options for treatment.
The latter defect may provide an explanation for many of the XP and CS symptoms that are difficult to rationalize based solely on an NER defect.
These results suggest that neonatal T cells are exposed to oxidative stress-inducing signals during delivery and/or are inherently more sensitive to NF-kappa B activating signals than adult T cells.
p38 and p63 may provide a docking site for Grb2, thereby linking Grb2 SH3-binding proteins SOS1, SLP-76, and p120 to downstream signalling events.
Differential phosphorylation and consequent differential activation of both separate and overlapping STAT proteins by IL-2, IL-12, and IFN-alpha may provide a molecular basis for the similarities and differences in the actions of these cytokines on NK cells.
These results suggest that oxidative signals can positively and negatively regulate T cell transcriptional events and that changes in cellular redox can uncouple AP-1 regulation of c-jun from transcriptional up-regulation of IL-2 via NF-AT.
As glucocorticoids regulate interferon-alpha -LRB- IFN alpha -RRB- production, we hypothesized that IFN alpha, a cytokine produced predominantly by monocytes in AIDS, should be increased in cortisol-resistant AIDS, attributing the lack of cortisol inhibition to IFN alpha production.
In conclusion, elevated IFN alpha levels in AIDS-GR may be due to the lack of inhibitory effect of cortisol on IFN alpha production due to cortisol resistance in monocytes.
In situ hybridization and Northern blot analysis suggest that Spi-B gene expression increases during B cell maturation and decreases during T cell maturation.
Gel-retardation experiments show that Spi-B can bind to all putative PU .1 binding sites, but do not reveal any preferred Spi-B binding site.
Taken together, these data suggest that differences in patterns of expression between Spi-B and PU .1 distinguish the function of each protein during development of the immune system.
The core GGAAs of the muA and muB sites are separated by 30 nucleotides, suggesting that ETS proteins bind to these sites from these same side of the DNA helix.
We propose that the requirement for precise spacing of the muA and muB elements is due in part to a directed DNA bend induced by PU .1.
HIV-1 harboring mutations within two C/EBP sites were crippled in their ability to replicate in U937 promonocytic cells, indicating that these sites are required for replication.
ATRA did not activate nuclear factor kappa B or signal transducer and activator of transcription -LRB- STAT -RRB- activation pathways, suggesting that an alternate mechanism is involved in IRF-1 gene activation.
The ATRA-induced expression of IRF-1, an activator of transcription and repressor of transformation, may be one of the molecular mechanisms of ATRA-induced growth inhibition, and the basis for the synergistic actions of ATRA and IFNs in myeloid leukemia cells.
These data provide important fundamental insights into the molecular mechanisms by which the c-Jun delta-domain functions as a modulatory switch and further imply that the functional role of c-Jun is dictated by cell-specific influences and the delta-domain motif.
The BCL6 gene encodes a 95-kDa protein containing six C-terminal zinc-finger motifs and an N-terminal POZ domain, suggesting that it may function as a transcription factor.
These results indicate that the BCL-6 protein can function as a sequence-specific transcriptional repressor and have implications for the role of BCL6 in normal lymphoid development and lymphomagenesis.
Culture supernatants from uninduced U937 cells were also found to activate an ISRE cloned upstream of the luciferase reporter gene, indicating the presence of endogenous IFN activity equivalent to approximately 0.3 to 0.5 IU/mL.
These results suggest that IFN-alpha5 and IFN-beta are produced at low levels in normal tissues and play an important role in the regulation of cell function and in the maintenance of homeostasis.
The presence of an active CRE site in the bcl-2 promoter implies that the regulation of bcl-2 expression is linked to a signal transduction pathway in B cells.
Although the CRE site is necessary, optimal induction of bcl-2 expression requires participation of the upstream regulatory element, suggesting that phosphorylation of CREB alters its interaction with the upstream regulatory element.
The CRE site in the bcl-2 promoter appears to play a major role in the induction of bcl-2 expression during the activation of mature B cells and during the rescue of immature B cells from apoptosis.
It is possible that the CRE site is responsible for induction of bcl-2 expression in other cell types, particularly those in which protein kinase C is involved.
These results suggest that phosphorylated pRB is constitutively expressed in MM cells and that IL-6 further shifts pRB from its dephosphorylated to its phosphorylated form, thereby promoting MM cell growth via two mechanisms ; by decreasing the amount of E2F bound by dephosphorylated pRB due to reduced dephosphorylated pRB, thereby releasing growth arrest ; and by upregulating IL-6 secretion by MM cells and related IL-6-mediated autocrine tumor cell growth.
From these results, we can conclude that electrostatic interactions of retinoids with the RAR alpha-LBD play a significant role in ligand binding.
In addition, antagonists show distinctly different requirements for efficient binding, which may contribute to their interference in the ligand-inducible transactivation function of RAR alpha.
E3 transcripts are present in the myeloid, B-lymphoid, and erythroid lineages, absent in nonhematopoietic cells, and encode a highly hydrophobic, potentially phosphorylated polypeptide of unknown function with significant homology to a putative protein expressed in myeloid cells.
These results indicate that E3 is a hematopoietic-specific gene that is an immediate target for the activated RAR alpha during myelopoiesis.
The association of 20q deletions with myeloid `` stem cell '' disorders suggests that the deletions mark the site of one or more genes, loss or inactivation of which plays a role in the regulation of normal hematopoietic progenitors.
Loss of heterozygosity in PB granulocytes would be masked by the presence of significant numbers of normal granulocytes not derived from the malignant clone.
In 5 patients the granulocytes appeared polyclonal and in 1 patient unilateral X inactivation was observed in both granulocytes and T cells.
Transfection of trans-dominant negative expression vectors of ras and raf, together with AP-1-dependent reporter constructs, as well as Western blot analysis using anti-ERK -LRB- extracellular signal-regulated kinase -RRB- antibodies, indicated that the Ras/Raf/ERK pathway did not appear to mediate the effect of the antioxidant.
Several recent studies have suggested that interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -6 may be used to detect both infection and rejection after lung transplantation.
In addition, IL-6 may play a role in the development of bronchiolitis obliterans after transplantation.
Because CMV is also associated with the development of bronchiolitis obliterans after transplantation, we determined whether CMV induces IL-6 gene expression.
These studies demonstrate that CMV may be an important cofactor in the development of rejection and infection after transplantation through its effects on IL-6.
The GM-CSF locus may represent one of several target genes that are dysregulated in acute myeloid leukemia.
We conclude that tyloxapol is potentially useful as a new antiinflammatory therapy for CF lung disease, and could possibly promote clearance of secretions in the CF airway.
To examine whether an active negative regulatory process occurs, we created a reporter construct containing as an enhancer four copies of the NF-AT site and one copy of the octamer site -LRB- 4X NF-AT-Oct -RRB-.
Mutational studies of the -236 to -96 sequence indicated that the presence of both the -130 AP-1-like site -LRB- -187 to -181 -RRB- and the -150 proximal AP-1 site were necessary to observe anergy.
Because the -180 site is not required for trans-activation, it was possible to confirm by mutation in the normal mouse IL-2 enhancer that this site is absolutely essential for anergy induction.
In addition, DNA methylation was revealed as one of the possible factors in establishing MNDA expression.
The findings indicate that MNDA expression is regulated by mechanisms similar to other myelomonocytic cell specific genes and genes up-regulated by interferon alpha.
However, this apparent lack of response to the secosterol can be overcome by stimulation of B lymphocytes with a combination of these cellular activation signals, which are sufficient to lead to G1 cell cycle progression.
In the presence of 1 alpha ,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3, cellular activation associated with stimulation of such a progression appears to be sufficient for the up-regulation of VDR message and protein and necessary for the establishment of VDRE binding complexes and the induction of 24-hydroxylase message.
These observations suggest that reactivity to 1 alpha ,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3 is tightly regulated in B lymphocytes, requiring specific signals for its initiation.
In both cases, induction of TNF-alpha gene transcription can be blocked by the immunosuppressants cyclosporin A and FK506, which suggested a role for the NFAT family of proteins in the regulation of the gene in B cells.
Importantly, nucleoprotein extracts showing decreased DNA-binding activity had normal amounts of Oct-1 proteins as determined by immunoprecipitation, implying a functional defect in the Oct-1 protein.
To determine whether the functional defect of the patients' T cells was due to the absence or abnormal binding of transcription factors involved in cytokine gene expression, electrophoretic mobility shift assays were used to examine the DNA binding of AP-1, Oct, CREB, SP1, NF-kappa B and the nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NF-AT -RRB- to their respective response elements in the promoter of the IL-2 gene.
Our results strongly suggest that this NF-AT/DNA binding defect is responsible for the multiple cytokine deficiency and the SCID phenotype observed in the two infant brothers.
Our findings support the recently determined calcineurin X-ray crystal structure, provide evidence that calcineurin is the only CsA-sensitive component limiting signaling from the T cell receptor to the nucleus, and suggest a means to render cells and tissues resistant to the toxic side effects of CsA and FK506.
To address possible mechanisms that could explain this selective activity of c-ErbB, we analyzed the ability of these receptors to activate the different members of the Stat transcription factor family.
The findings suggest that a novel proto-oncogene in the vicinity of TCR alpha/delta is involved in this translocation.
Cellular regulation of BZLF1 transcription is therefore thought to play a key role in regulating the stringency of viral latency.
Therefore, the mechanisms leading to disruption of EBV latency appear to be cell-type specific.
By using 70Z/3-derived pre-B-cell lines either lacking or expressing human CD14 -LRB- the LPS receptor -RRB-, it was observed that expression of human CD14 imparted responsiveness to LPS but not to OspA or spirochetal lipopeptides -LRB- assessed by induction of NF-kappa B and expression of surface immunoglobulin M -RRB-.
these observations also suggest a potential mechanism whereby a syphilitic chancre can serve as a cofactor for human immunodeficiency virus transmission.
The combined data lend additional support to the proposal that spirochetal lipoproteins and LPS initiate monocyte activation via different cell surface events but that the signaling pathways ultimately converge to produce qualitatively similar cellular responses.
These data suggest that different members or isoforms of NFAT gene family may regulate inducible expression of different cytokine genes.
This study indicates that activation of PKA reduces the induction of a distinct set of genes in monocytes and endothelial cells by inhibiting NF-kappaB-mediated transcription.
Thus, defective IL-2 gene transcription appears to be due, at least in part, to a selective block in the expression of the AP-1 Fos and Jun family members in anergic T cells.
Evidence from several systems indicates that the immediate early gene, egr-1 may be of particular importance in the immune system.
Coactivator OCA-B may undergo a POU-dependent conformational change that exposes its amino terminus, allowing it to recognize specific DNA sequences in the major groove within the binding site for Oct-1 or Oct-2.
BZLF1 mRNA and the product, an immediate-early gene for EBV replication, was not expressed in any of them, thereby suggesting that the tumour cells carried EBV genomes in a tightly latent form.
Furthermore, the analysis of IkappaBalpha turnover demonstrated an increased degradation of IkappaBalpha in HIV-1-infected cells that may account for the constitutive DNA binding activity.
We suggest that HIV-1 infection of myeloid cells induces IFN production and PKR activity, which in turn contribute to enhanced IkappaBalpha phosphorylation and subsequent degradation.
Nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB subunits may ultimately increase the intracellular pool of NF-kappaB/IkappaBalpha by an autoregulatory mechanism.
Enhanced turnover of IkappaBalpha and the accumulation of NF-kappaB/Rel proteins may contribute to the chronically activated state of HIV-1-infected cells.
In these cells, the expression of MHC-class I antigens is repressed and might allow them to escape from recognition by cytotoxic T lymphocytes -LRB- CTL -RRB- and to develop in tumor.
Furthermore, these cell lines appear resistant to lysis by natural killer -LRB- NK -RRB- cells.
The results obtained suggest that two Ad12 E1A domains are required to induce resistance of the cell lines to NK cells.
In this study, we characterize an essential upstream IL-2 response element that contains both consensus and non-consensus GAS motifs, two putative Ets binding sites -LRB- EBS -RRB-, one of which overlaps the consensus GAS motif, and a GATA motif, which overlaps the non-consensus GAS motif.
An unidentified Ets family protein binds to the EBS overlapping the consensus GAS motif and appears to negatively regulate the human IL-2R alpha promoter.
Thus, IL-2-induced IL-2R alpha promoter activity requires a complex upstream element, which appears to contain binding sites for both positive and negative regulatory factors.
These findings further support our previous observations on the distinct regulation of expression of the human HLA-DQ class II subset, which may be thus controlled at the posttranscriptional level by a CIITA-independent mechanism.
Abnormalities for one or both probes were detected in 83/95 samples.
Lobular or mucinous samples showed few or no alterations, whereas most ductal samples had high chromosome 1 polysomy with under-representation of 1p36.
Previously we and others showed by targeted gene disruption that the zinc finger gene, erythroid Kruppel-like factor -LRB- EKLF -RRB-, is required for expression of the beta-globin gene in mice, presumably through interaction with a high-affinity binding site in the proximal promoter.
The glucocorticoid-induced reduction of IL-12 production was antagonized by RU 486, a glucocorticoid-receptor antagonist, suggesting that it was mediated by the glucocorticoid receptor.
The effects of either catecholamine on IL-12 or IL-10 secretion were blocked completely by propranolol, a beta-adrenoreceptor antagonist, indicating that they were mediated by the beta-adrenergic receptor.
These findings suggest that the central nervous system may regulate IL-12 and IL-10 secretion and, hence, TH1/TH2 balance via the peripheral end-effectors of the stress system.
Thus, stress may cause a selective suppression of TH1 functions and a shift toward a TH2 cytokine pattern rather than generalized TH suppression.
The TH1-to-TH2 shift may be responsible for the stress-induced susceptibility of the organism to certain infections.
Through the same or a reciprocal mechanism, states associated with chronic hyperactivity or hypoactivity of the stress system might influence the susceptibility of an individual to certain autoimmune, allergic, infectious, or neoplastic diseases.
ISH for EBV-encoded small non-polyadenylated RNAs showed that all cases, whether NK or T, harboured EBV in virtually all tumour cells.
In addition, analysis of EBV protein expression by IH revealed a heterogeneous pattern of EBV gene expression at the single-cell level consisting of both LMP1 + and LMP1 - tumour cells, suggesting a mixture of latency I and II.
Although 2 early lytic transcripts, BZLF1 and BHRF1, were also detected in 13 and 10 cases, respectively, the lack of ZEBRA staining in any case indicates that these lytic transcripts are most likely expressed by rare cells in the biopsies entering lytic cycle.
The viral transcriptional pattern similar to that of nasopharyngeal carcinoma and Hodgkin 's disease suggests that EBV can exploit common regulatory mechanisms for gene transcription in diverse host cell types.
Down-regulation of immunogenic proteins -LRB- EBNA2-EBNA6 -RRB- in nasal lymphoma may enable tumour cells to evade host cytotoxic T-cell surveillance.
Therefore, it is important to determine whether CD14 is expressed in gingival fibroblasts and to define the P-LPS-mediated signal-transducing mechanism in the cells.
A third tyrosine within the amino-terminal region -LRB- Y145 -RRB- appears to be the most important for optimal SLP-76 function, as altering it alone to phenylalanine has a potent impact on SLP-76 augmentation of NFAT promoter activity.
It is assumed that pp56 -LRB- lck -RRB- acts on these processes by phosphorylating substrates.
Two pp56 -LRB- lck -RRB- mutants lacking either the entire catalytic domain or the entire NH2 regulatory domain were generated, and their abilities to trigger transactivation of the TCR-regulated nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NF-AT -RRB- region of the IL-2 promoter were compared.
This contrasts with induction of c-fos by both CD40 and sIg, which is PKC independent and indicates that CD40 is capable of signaling through PKC or a closely related kinase.
Induction of fra-1 following engagement of CD40 did not require protein synthesis, suggesting that the PKC-dependent linkage between CD40 and fra-1 is direct.
These results demonstrate that CD40, like sIg, may employ PKC in producing select outcomes, that individual B cell receptors may signal downstream events via both PKC-dependent and PKC-independent pathways, and that multiple signal transduction pathways may be used to activate the expression of closely related genes.
These results suggest that peripheral T cells use distinct apoptosis signaling pathways with differential sensitivity to Bcl-2 and interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme family protease inhibitors.
Since T cells normally express Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL following activation, their inability to block Fas-mediated apoptosis may allow for the elimination of self-reactive cells and the appropriate regulation of immune responses.
The last 13 amino acids containing a PXQXT/S sequence are highly conserved in human and simian EBV LMP1 but do not bind TRAF3, suggesting a distinct role for this conserved region of LMP1.
The conserved TRAF3 binding sites in LMP1 and the CD30 Hodgkin 's disease marker provides further evidence that a TRAF3-mediated signal transduction pathway may be important in malignant transformation.
The IFN-dependent increase in RAR -LRB- alpha -RRB- levels and the enhancing effect of the cytokine on retinoid-dependent granulocytic markers expression may be a characteristic of PML-RAR positive cells, since the phenomena are not observed in HL-60 promyelocytes.
These results suggest the possible use of combinations between IFNs and retinoic acid in the cyto-differentiating treatment of APL patients.
The results suggest that a combination of the three proximal cis-acting elements may constitute a minimal region responsible for CTL-specific expression of perforin.
The responses of lymphocytes to IL-2 and IL-12, involving proliferation, differentiation, and cytokine production, are only partially overlapping, and may depend on induced differential expression of specific sets of genes.
This indicates that functional differences observed in IL-2 - and IL-12-stimulated cells may depend, at least in part, on differential gene regulation.
Studies on unicellular and paired daughter cell culture unequivocally indicate that the shift is mediated by modulation of the HPC differentiation program to the granulopoietic pathway -LRB- rather than RA-induced down-modulation of multipotent / erythroid/monocytic HPC growth coupled with recruitment of granulocytic HPCs -RRB-.
ATRA and 9-cis RA also exert their effect on the proliferation of primitive HPCs -LRB- high-proliferative potential colony-forming cells -LSB- HPP-CFCs -RSB- -RRB- and putative hematopoietic stem cells -LRB- HSCs ; assayed in Dexter-type long-term culture -RRB-.
It is crucial that these results mirror recent observations indicating that murine adult HPCs transduced with dominant negative ATRA receptor -LRB- RAR -RRB- gene are immortalized and show a selective blockade of granulocytic differentiation.
Altogether, these results suggest that ATRA/9-cis RA may play a key role in FL hematopoiesis via a dual effect hypothetically mediated by interaction with the RAR/RXR heterodimer, ie, inhibition of HSC / primitive HPC proliferation and induction of CFU-GEMM / BFU-E/CFU-M shift from the multipotent/erythroid/monocytic to the granulocytic-neutrophilic differentiation program.
Although GLRP shares some characteristics with the inducible transcription factor AP-1, it appears to be distinct from known AP-1 family members.
In this review, I describe how DNA methylation and specific DNA binding proteins may regulate transcription of the IFN-gamma gene in response to extracellular signals.
Yet, little is known as to how the RA and VitD3 receptor network operates in hematopoietic cells, and whether receptor interactions can explain the interplay between the RA - and VitD3-signaling pathways during differentiation.
In contrast, neither the RA-stimulated, RARE-mediated transcription nor the induced RAR-beta expression was suppressed by VitD3, suggesting that VitD3 selectively inhibited the retinoid-induced differentiation program but not the RARE-mediated signal.
These results demonstrate a complex role for VitD3 in modifying the retinoid differentiation pathway and may have implications for differentiation-inducing therapy of hematopoietic tumors.
The involvement of p21 -LRB- ras -RRB- in the regulation of calcium-dependent signals has been suggested through analysis of its role in the activation of NF-AT.
This inhibition of calcium-activated IE gene induction was reversed by treatment with cyclosporin A, suggesting the involvement of calcineurin in this regulation.
These results suggest that p2l -LRB- ras -RRB- is an essential mediator in generating not only positive but also negative modulatory mechanisms controlling the competence of T cells in response to inductive stimulations.
Many of Pb 's effects on the immune system could be explained through activation of the transcription factor, NF-kappa B..
Pb-induced activation of NF-kappa B is blocked by antibodies for p65 and p50 subunits but not cRel, indicating that the p65 : p50 heterodimer -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- is involved.
Pb did not activate NF-kappa B in 4 different T cell lines, suggesting that lymphoid cell lines may not be reliable surrogates for the study of transcriptional activation in human T cells.
These data suggest that NF-kappa B may be an important molecular mediator of Pb-induced immunotoxicity.
These results suggest a critical role of c-jun in both cell proliferation and PMA-induced cell adhesion but not in PMA-induced respiratory burst in U937 cells.
Early studies in murine T cell lines indicated that transcriptional transactivation functions encoded in the glucocorticoid receptor -LRB- GR -RRB- N-terminal domain are required for glucocorticoid-mediated apoptosis.
However, more recent studies in human T cell lines have suggested that the N-terminal domain is not necessary for steroid-regulated apoptosis and that GR-mediated transrepression may be the more critical mechanism.
We found that GIG18 was rapidly induced to comparable levels by both AR and GR, demonstrating that AR can indeed function as a transcriptional activator in S49 cells and, moreover, that GIG18 induction may be a marker of early apoptotic events in steroid-treated cells.
Taken together, these results support our conclusion that transcriptional transactivation is a necessary signaling component of S49 cell apoptosis, although an additional role for GR-mediated transrepression can not be excluded.
Enzymatic assay of alpha-galactosidase in blood leucocytes, skin fibroblasts, Epstein-Barr virus transformed lymphoid cell lines, and hair follicles of the twins and their parents confirmed the heterozygous status of the twins and indicated that Fabry disease had occurred as a result of a de novo mutation.
These data suggest that the paternal X chromosome carries the de novo alpha-galactosidase A mutation and that uneven X inactivation is the underlying mechanism for disease expression in this novel female MZ twin pair.
These properties suggest that TAFII105 is a cell type-specific subunit of TFIID that may be responsible for mediating transcription by a subset of activators in B cells.
Our data support the notion that NF -LRB- kappa -RRB- B and I -LRB- kappa -RRB- B proteases play obligate roles in T cell activation and mitogenesis, roles that are enhanced significantly by NAC.
Therefore, we have studied the transcriptional regulation of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- ICAM-1 -RRB- as adhesion molecules are likely to play a causal role in inflammation in promoting cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions.
We propose that direct interaction between the glucocorticoid receptor and nuclear factor-kappa B factors is at least a partial explanation for the effects of this hormone in inflammatory diseases.
The dexamethasone suppression test -LRB- DST -RRB- is considered an indicator of the function of the adrenal pituitary axis.
We previously suggested that the measurement of corticosteroid receptors in lymphocytes is an index of an analogous pattern in brain.
We suggest that in young subjects Type II receptors are initially up-regulated by dexamethasone, and then down-regulated, while in aged subjects an up-regulation can not be achieved, as suggested by the higher values of plasma cortisol usually found in aging subjects.
Based upon these results we propose that this factor may have a role in pathophysiology of chronic myeloid leukaemia.
We overexpressed in the Jurkat T-cell line ZAP-70 mutated on Tyr-492 and Tyr-493 in the putative regulatory loop of its kinase domain.
PHA-induced kappaB-dependent reporter activity was, however, effectively blocked by a dominant negative form of Raf-1, suggesting a critical role for a Raf kinase.
Consistent with these observations, coexpression of constitutively active forms of Raf-1 and calcineurin synergistically induced kappaB-dependent reporter activity, suggesting a physiologically relevant functional interaction between the kinase and the phosphatase.
Therefore, we compared the nucleotide sequences of the CD11a, CD11b, and CD11c gene promoters to identify common elements that might contribute to inducible expression.
Mutation of these elements indicated that two, MS-2beta and MS-2gamma, are critical to the induction of the CD11b gene during differentiation of the pro-monocytic cell line U937.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays indicate that MS-2beta and MS-2gamma interact with nuclear factors that are induced during U937 differentiation.
Taken together, our data indicate that MS-2 mediates induction of the CD11b gene as cells of the monocytic lineage mature.
The presence of multiple potential binding sites for MS-2 in the promoter regions of a wide range of genes expressed in mature myeloid cells suggests this factor plays a general role in myeloid differentiation.
This report describes studies indicating that the most proximal of these two regulatory elements is an important determinant of its restricted expression.
In contrast, CREB appears to dampen transcription from this element.
As a target for DNA methylation and for binding of transcription factors that mediate or impede transcription, this element appears to play a central role in controlling IFN-gamma expression.
Neutral sphingomyelinase -LRB- SMase -RRB- can be activated by extracellular signals to produce ceramide, which may affect mitogen-activated protein kinase -LRB- MAPK -RRB- activities.
The effects of Ara-C on JNK activity may be mediated through secondary response pathways.
In allergic bronchial asthma, inflammation seems to be orchestrated predominantly by a subset of T lymphocytes, with a phenotype similar to the Th2 subset able to produce IL-4 and IL-5.
New knowledge on the mechanism of steroid resistance may have important implications for the treatment of chronic asthma and other diseases.
These results indicate that stimulation of CD40 signaling pathways exerts a long-lasting stimulatory effect on both the transcription and nuclear translocation of RelB.
Since LPS and anti-IgM were unable to activate RelB, CD40 appears to trigger a special program of gene expression involved in the proliferation and/or differentiation of B lymphocytes.
Based upon these results we propose that alpha-interferon through its receptor initiates phosphatidic acid dependent signalling which in turn regulates the affinity of 47 kDa sterol regulatory element binding factor as well as LDL-receptor gene transcription in lymphocytes from CML patients.
This putative human IL-2rE, designated PRRIII, confers IL-2 responsiveness on a heterologous promoter.
Our data demonstrate a major role of the GASd/EBSd element in IL-2R alpha regulation and suggest that the T-cell-specific Elf-1 factor can serve as a transcriptional repressor.
The Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- transforming protein LMP1 appears to be a constitutively activated tumor necrosis factor receptor -LRB- TNFR -RRB- on the basis of an intrinsic ability to aggregate in the plasma membrane and an association of its cytoplasmic carboxyl terminus -LRB- CT -RRB- with TNFR-associated factors -LRB- TRAFs -RRB-.
NF-kappaB activation by LMP1 -LRB- 1-231 -RRB- is likely to be mediated by TRAF1/TRAF2 heteroaggregates since TRAF1 is unique among the TRAFs in coactivating NF-kappaB with LMP1 -LRB- 1-231 -RRB-, a TRAF2 dominant-negative mutant can block LMP1 -LRB- 1-231 -RRB- - mediated NF-kappaB activation as well as TRAF1 coactivation, and 30 % of TRAF2 is associated with TRAF1 in EBV-transformed B cells.
This widespread expression of the TSC2 gene supports the view that it encodes a protein vital to cell growth and metabolism or one that functions as a tumor/growth suppressor.
For this expression pattern the first 280 bp upstream of the major transcriptional start site seems to be sufficient.
In exerting their antiproliferative effects, GCS diffuse into target cells where they bind their cytoplasmic receptor, which in turn translocates to the nucleus where it inhibits transcription of cytokine genes through direct binding to the glucocorticoid response elements -LRB- GRE -RRB-, which are located in the promoter region of cytokine genes or, alternatively, through antagonism of the action of transcription factors required for optimal transcriptional activation.
Since it is known that PGE2 is able to increase cAMP levels, we investigated whether it can affect gene expression through the activation of the transcription factors which bind enhancer elements in the promoter regions of cAMP-regulated genes.
Since the okadaic acid, a potent protein phosphatase inhibitor, prolongs the induction of the binding activity, phosphorylation events are likely to occur.
This activity seems to be due to increased cAMP levels because forskolin and IBMX mimic the effects of PGE2.
MAbs against the dUTPase reacted with a protein of approximately 31 kDa in 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate -LRB- TPA -RRB- - stimulated B cells harbouring either type 1 or type 2 EBV.
This indicated that the dUTPase is expressed during EBV replication and reactivation.
The enzyme might therefore be a potential target for drug therapy under conditions of active DNA replication.
Expression of DR3 appears to be restricted to tissues enriched in lymphocytes.
Thus, DR3 likely plays a role in regulating lymphocyte homeostasis.
The different patterns of p50, p52 and RelB protein nuclear localization may provide insight into their different roles during the immune response in vivo.
Implication of viruses such as Epstein-Barr virus -LRB- EBV -RRB- in rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis has been suspected on the basis of several indirect observations, but thus far, a direct link between EBV and rheumatoid arthritis has not been provided.
Thus these results suggest a direct contribution of EBV to chronic rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis.
They also demonstrate for the first time the occurrence of T cell responses against EBV transactivating factors, which might be central in the control of virus reactivation.
Those cytokines may modulate the differentiation of monocytes by CSFs.
Such a diverse pathway of monocyte differentiation may constitute one of the basic mechanisms of immune regulation.
PML appears to be transcriptionally regulated by class I and II interferons, which raises the possibility that interferons modulate the function and growth and differentiation potential of normal myeloid cells and precursors by activating PML-dependent pathways.
Now we have examined whether naive and memory T lymphocytes differ in their sensitivity to ROI-mediated signals.
The magnitude and kinetics of intracellular ROI were similar, suggesting that there were no differences in ROI-forming mechanisms or antioxidative capacities.
The probable regulatory point was the cytoplasmic IkappaB inhibitor :.
These findings indicate that T cells representing different activation and/or differentiation stages can be differentially responsive to ROI-mediated signals.
however, it has not been established whether the expression has a causal role in oncogenesis.
These data indicate that TAL-1, expressed in T cells, is per se a potent oncogene, which may exert a key leukemogenetic role in the majority of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias.
The location of Sp140 in the NB, and expression of this gene in cells involved in host defense, suggest that Sp140 may be involved in the pathogenesis of acute promyelocytic leukemia and viral infection.
Signal transduction through tyrosine kinase activation may lead to altered gene expression, as J393/CD43 ligation prompted decreases in the nuclear localization of the transcriptional regulatory protein NF-kappaB and proteins binding the interferon-inducible regulatory element.
In the present study we addressed the question of whether IL-12 can reverse established Th2 responses into Th1/Th0 responses by inducing IFN-gamma production in memory Th2 cells.
Our results indicate that human allergen-specific Th cells with strongly polarized Th2 cytokine profiles do not respond to IL-12 and, therefore, can not be induced to produce IFN-gamma.
The apparent high frequency of IL-12-nonresponsive Th cells within the allergen-specific populations in atopic patients predicts a limited skewing potential of IL-12 in the case of established Th2 responses, but only affecting newly recruited naive Th cells.
To determine whether oxidative stress dependent NF-kappaB activation is evident in patients with diabetic nephropathy we used an Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay based semiquantitative detection system which enabled us to determine NF-kappaB activation in ex vivo isolated peripheral blood mononuclear cells.
G. vaginalis lysates activated HIV long-terminal repeat transcription in HIV-infected cells and increased NF-kappaB binding activity, indicating an effect by G. vaginalis on HIV transcription.
The activation of HIV production by G. vaginalis suggests that genital tract infection with G. vaginalis increases the risk of HIV transmission by increasing HIV expression in the genital tract.
This may explain, at least in part, the increased rate of HIV transmission in women with BV.
There is increasing evidence that IFN-alpha has an important role in T-cell biology.
IFN-alpha also sensitized T cells to IL-2-induced proliferation, further suggesting that IFN-alpha may be involved in the regulation of T-cell mitogenesis.
Taken together, our results suggest that IFN-alpha, IL-2, IL-12, and IL-15 have overlapping activities on human T cells.
Because monocytes and macrophages are important mediators of Th1-type responses, such as delayed-type hypersensitivity, we sought to determine if IL-10 could directly mediate inhibition of IFNgamma - and IFNalpha-induced gene expression in these cells.
This may occur through the ability of IL-10 to induce expression of the gene, suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 -LRB- SOCS3 -RRB-.
The requirement for AP1 activation suggested a role for the mitogen-activated protein kinase -LRB- MAPK -RRB- signaling pathway in regulating alpha2 integrin gene expression.
Since APL cells do not express HLA class II molecules, we tested in two donors -LRB- D. E. and C. H. R. -RRB- and in patients S.R.and P.G.whether the use of 9-mer peptides -LRB- BCR1/9 -RRB- would generate a CD8/HLA class I-restricted response.
These findings are discussed in relation to possible therapeutic approaches to the immunotherapy of APL.
However, the sources for ROIs in various cell types are yet to be determined and might include 5-lipoxygenase -LRB- 5-LOX -RRB- and NADPH oxidase.
Currently available data indicate that erythroid and megakaryocytic differentiation pathways are closely related to each other, and there may exist progenitor cells common to those two lineages may exist.
These blast cells express lineage-specific transcription factors such as GATA-1 common to these lineages and frequently express erythroid-specific mRNAs such as gamma-globin and erythroid delta-aminolevulinate synthase -LRB- ALAS-E -RRB-, indicating that most of the blasts in M7 and TMD cases have erythroid and megakaryocytic phenotypes.
These results suggest that blasts in M7 and TMD may correspond to progenitors of both erythroid and megakaryocytic lineages.
These results indicate that the function of adrenal cortex may be improved by the compensation mechanism of the patients, but the lower GCR number was the result of lacking of oxygen in the patients.
The number of GCR may be improved by inhalation of oxygen.
Nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B ; heterodimer of p50 and p65 -RRB- proteins have been suggested to play an important role in gene transcription of inflammatory mediators when monocytes are stimulated with lipopolysaccharide.
The three compartments are thought to be of common endodermal origin ; in contrast to earlier hypotheses, which suggested that the endocrine compartment was of neuroectodermal origin.
It is thus generally believed that the pancreatic endocrine-lineage possesses the ability to mature along a differentiation pathway that shares many characteristics with those of neuronal differentiation.
The Bcd gene may therefore play an important role in B-cell growth and development.
Thus the suppression of CD11b/CD18 expression by tepoxalin may involve IL-8.
Our results suggest that by inhibiting NF-kappa B activation, surface expression of several adhesion molecules can be modulated and that tepoxalin may be useful in treating selected adhesion mediated events such as leukocyte migration or atherosclerotic plaque formation.
Among the documented cellular responses to LDL is increased recruitment of monocytes, which are believed to play a major role in promoting intimal plaque formation.
After a 2-day incubation in LDL, the binding of NF-kappa B, which is believed to be a key oxidative-stress sensor for VCAM regulation, remains at basal level.
Thus, a component of LDL-enhanced endothelial recruitment of monocytes is attributed to VCAM-1 expression, which appears to be mediated through AP-1 and GATA.
These data identify LDL as a VCAM-inducer possibly distinct from cytokines and endotoxin.
As a consequence, the immune response developed in senescent organisms is usually inappropriate, often inefficient, sometimes aberrant, and potentially detrimental.
The age-associated immune dysfunction may be implicated to some degree in the extreme susceptibility of the elderly to infection and neoplasia and may even participate in various aspects of senescence.
The multiple alterations observed on the various biochemical pathways may appear as a consequence of a unique deleterious mechanism more fundamentally related to the process of senescence such as the inability to cope with oxidative stress.
These data indicate that IL-4 signaling occurs in the absence of of JAK3, but is comparatively inefficient.
These findings may help in understanding the pathogenesis of the immunodeficiency that occurs with mutations of JAK3 and may suggest a mechanism for the pleiotropic effects of IL-4.
G0S3 is a member of a set of putative G0/G1 switch regulatory genes -LRB- G0S genes -RRB- selected by screening cDNA libraries prepared from human blood mononuclear cells cultured for 2 hr with lectin and cycloheximide.
The kinetics of expression suggest that the high initial levels are caused by the isolation procedure, and do not reflect constitutive expression.
These differences in expression of FOS and FOSB suggest different roles and regulation.
Regions of low potential in a 68.5-kb genomic segment containing the FOSB gene suggest that the potential may help locate genes in uncharted DNA sequences.
By competition analysis with transcription factor consensus sequence oligonucleotides and by immunosupershift, transcription factor SP-1 or a closely related protein was shown to bind to this regulatory element.
These observations suggest that a so-far-unrecognized SP-1 site in the human IL-1beta promoter may participate in the transcriptional regulation of this gene in keratinocytes.
Inhibition of RANTES expression did not appear to be secondary to IL-2 inhibition and required binding to the intracellular glucocorticoid receptor.
The down-regulation of RANTES expression by glucocorticoids in T cells may directly contribute to the efficacy of these agents in suppressing cellular infiltration and to their anti-inflammatory properties.
These results indicate that NF-kappa B activity is commonly inducible in DND39 cells by IL-4 and anti-CD40 mAb and suggest that NF-kappa B sensitive to NAC may play a role in regulating IgE synthesis in B cells.
CONCLUSION : These data suggest that glucocorticoids such as budesonide, by virtue of their high GCR binding affinities and greater ability to suppress lymphocyte proliferation, may therefore be beneficial in the management of difficult-to-control asthma.
As evidenced by electro mobility shift assay -LRB- EMSA -RRB- and the use of a NF-kappa B prototypic probe, these drugs probably exert their inhibitory effects by interference with the nuclear translocation of NF-kappa B/c-Rel proteins.
These data may expand the understanding of the anti-thrombotic and anti-inflammatory effects of these drugs when activation of monocytes occurs.
A 40-fold stimulation of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase activity mediated by four tandem repeats of the SNE could be induced within 2 h -LRB- and up to 250-fold within 6 h -RRB- after addition of TPA in DNA-transfected U-937 cells, indicating that the stimulation appeared likely to be a true protein kinase C-mediated signal transduction event rather than a differentiation response.
Slight differences in the sequence of the core SRF binding site compared with that of the classical c-Fos promoter serum response element, together with differences in the spacing between the SRF and ETS motifs, appear to account for the inability of the SCMV SNEs to respond to serum induction.
Our results suggest that the germline promoters and V region promoters differ in their dependence on octamer for activation and respond differently to enhancer activation.
In contrast, another inducible gene expression of monocyte chemotactic protein-1 -LRB- a CC chemokine -RRB- and the activation of the transcriptional factor -LRB- FcRFgamma -RRB- bound to the gamma response region were similarly or less abundantly induced by IFNgamma treatment in PMA - or RA-differentiated U937 cells, indicating that increased IP-10 mRNA induction was not due to the augmented ability of the cells to respond to the presence of IFNgamma.
Increased expression of IFNgamma-induced IP-10 mRNA following the differentiation of U937 cells was mediated largely by augmented transcriptional activity of the gene and was related to differentiation-dependent changes of the proteins bound to IFN stimulus response element -LRB- ISRE -RRB- and kB sites, suggesting that these nuclear proteins may determine the IP-10 mRNA inducibility by IFNgamma.
Thus, STAT1 may be a useful target in the development of new immunosuppressive and antineoplastic agents.
Thus, C. pneumoniae triggers a cascade of events that could lead to endothelial activation, inflammation, and thrombosis, which in turn may result in or may promote atherosclerosis.
In the present study we investigated the possible involvement of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family members extracellular-regulated kinase 1/2 -LRB- ERK1/2 -RRB- and c-Jun N-terminal kinase -LRB- JNK -RRB- in mediating IL-6 gene expression in human monocytes, in particular their role in enhancing NF-kappa B activity.
Our results suggest that the JNK pathway may regulate NF-kappa B-mediated gene transcription through its phosphorylation and activation of c-Jun.
Our studies thus indicate that, despite the rapidity of NK cell-mediated lysis, AP-1 transcription factor is activated during the early stage of NK cell cytolytic programs and that engagement of NK cell inhibitory receptors for MHC class I molecules impairs the very early activation of AP-1.
We then investigated if HCMV binding also resulted in the translation and secretion of cytokines.
Because these induced gene products have NF-kappaB sites in their promoter regions, we next examined whether there was an up-regulation of nuclear NF-kappaB levels.
These results support our hypothesis that HCMV initiates a signal transduction pathway that leads to monocyte activation and pinpoints a potential mechanism whereby HCMV infection of monocytes can result in profound pathogenesis, especially in chronic inflammatory-type conditions.
We demonstrate here that pretreatment with PAO results in the inhibition of NFkappaB induction in TNF-alpha treated T cells, suggesting a role for PAO-sensitive phosphatase in the activation of the NFkappaB via this pathway in human T cells.
These data collectively suggest that PAO interferes with the phosphorylation and the regulated degradation of IkappaB-alpha, induced by TNF, without affecting the chymotryptic activity of the proteasome, independent of age.
The nature of the nuclear factor -LRB- s -RRB- that control TNF-alpha gene transcription in humans remains obscure, although NF-kappaB has been suggested.
Together, these findings suggest that LITAF plays an important role in the activation of the human TNF-alpha gene and proposes a new mechanism to control TNF-alpha gene expression.
Taken together, these data indicate that the unexpected expression of megakaryocytic genes is a specific property of immortalized cells that can not be explained only by enhanced expression of Spi-1 and/or Fli-1 genes.
We hypothesized that inhibition of either PKC or PTK would decrease LPS-induced NF-kappaB DNA binding and TNF-alpha release in human monocytes.
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Human monocytes were stimulated with PMA -LRB- 50 ng/ml -RRB- alone or LPS -LRB- 100 ng/ml -RRB- with and without a nonspecific serine/threonine protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine -LRB- Stauro -RRB-, a specific pan-PKC inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide -LRB- Bis -RRB-, or an inhibitor of PTK genistein -LRB- Gen -RRB-.
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that LPS-induced NF-kappaB activation and TNF-alpha release in human monocytes are independent of PKC activity.
Furthermore, our results provide evidence that PTK plays a role in LPS-induced NF-kappaB activation and TNF-alpha release in human monocytes and thus could be a potential therapeutic target in inflammatory states.
After tyrosine phosphorylation by src and possibly syk protein tyrosine kinases SIT recruits the SH2 domain-containing tyrosine phosphatase SHP2 via an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibition motif.
Overexpression of SIT in Jurkat cells downmodulates T cell receptor - and phytohemagglutinin-mediated activation of the nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NF-AT -RRB- by interfering with signaling processes that are probably located upstream of activation of phospholipase C..
However, binding of SHP2 to SIT is not required for inhibition of NF-AT induction, suggesting that SIT not only regulates NF-AT activity but also controls NF-AT unrelated pathways of T cell activation involving SHP2.
A functional role of the GrpL-SLP-76 complex is suggested by the ability of GrpL to act alone or in concert with SLP-76 to augment NF-AT activation in Jurkat T cells.
We propose that HePTP plays a negative role in antigen receptor signaling by specifically regulating MAP kinases in the cytosol and at early time points of T cell activation before the activation-induced expression of nuclear dual-specific MAP kinase phosphatases.
The renin-angiotensin system may contribute to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis.
BACKGROUND : Studies from our laboratory have shown that the earliest stages of atherosclerosis may be mediated by an autoimmune reaction against heat shock protein 60 -LRB- Hsp60 -RRB-.
These conflicting observations may be due to different effects of anti-inflammatory agents on adhesion molecule and Hsp expression in EC, respectively.
These data provide the molecular basis for the notion that -LRB- 1 -RRB- part of the anti-atherogenic effect of aspirin may be due to the prevention of the adhesion of sensitized T cells to stressed EC ; -LRB- 2 -RRB- that part of the atherosclerosis-promoting effect of CyA may be due to its potential as an inducer of Hsp60 expression and its inability to down-regulate adhesion molecule expression on EC ; and -LRB- 3 -RRB- that down-regulation of MCP-1 expression by aspirin may result in decreased recruitment of monocytes into the arterial intima beneath stressed EC.
Transient transfection of endothelial cells with ICAM-1 promoter luciferase reporter gene -LRB- ICAM-1LUC -RRB- constructs indicated that deletion of upstream NF-kappa B site -LRB- -533 bases from translation start site -RRB- had no effect on thrombin responsiveness, whereas mutation/deletion of downstream NF-kappa B site -LRB- -223 bases from the translation start site -RRB- prevented the activation of ICAM-1 promoter, indicating that the downstream NF-kappa B site is critical for thrombin inducibility.
NF-kappa B-directed luciferase activity increased approximately 3-fold when cells transfected with the plasmid pNF-kappa BLUC containing five copies of consensus NF-kappa B site linked to a minimal adenovirus E1B promoter-luciferase gene were exposed to thrombin, indicating that activation of NF-kappa B was essential for thrombin response.
These data indicate that thrombin activates endothelial ICAM-1 expression and polymorphonuclear leukocyte adhesion by NF-kappa Bp65 binding to the downstream NF-kappa B site of ICAM-1 promoter after proteolytically activated receptor-1 activation.
In this review we evaluate the possible in vivo role of different transcription factors and transcriptional mechanisms in T cell differentiation and the immune response.
These lipid mediators increase activity of transcription factors and expression of cytokine genes indicating a function for cytosolic phospholipase A2 in signal transduction and inflammation.
Thus, this therapeutic potency may reside in retention of inactive nuclear factor-kappaB in the cytosol thereby abrogating interleukin-1beta gene transcription.
The transactivator CIITA behaves as a master controller of constitutive and inducible MHC class II gene activation, but its exact mechanism of action is not known.
This observation raised the possibility that the effect of CIITA on promoter occupation is mediated by an effect on the cooperative stabilization of the DNA-bound multi-protein complexes.
This suggests other mechanisms for CIITA-induced promoter occupancy, such as an effect on chromatin structure leading to increased accessibility of MHC class II promoters.
Here we report that in T cells, Tcf-1 also becomes transcriptionally active through interaction with beta-catenin, suggesting that the Wnt signal transduction pathway is operational in T lymphocytes as well.
1. Bioactivation of sulphamethoxazole -LRB- SMX -RRB- to chemically-reactive metabolites and subsequent protein conjugation is thought to be involved in SMX hypersensitivity.
3. SMX-NHOH and SMX-NO were rapidly reduced back to the parent compound by cysteine -LRB- CYS -RRB-, GSH, human peripheral blood cells and plasma, suggesting that this is an important and ubiquitous bioinactivation mechanism.
7. Our results suggest that the balance between oxidation of SMX to its toxic metabolites and their reduction is an important protective cellular mechanism.
If an imbalance exists, haptenation of the toxic metabolites to bodily proteins including the surface of viable cells can occur, and may result in drug hypersensitivity.
AP-1 but not NF-IL-6 DNA binding activity was also detected in C5a-stimulated PBMC ; however, its delayed expression -LRB- maximal at 4 hours -RRB- suggested a less important role in the rapid production of IL-8.
These results suggest that NF-kappaB activation is required for C5a-induced IL-8 gene expression and that this response is mediated primarily through a pertussis toxin-insensitive pathway.
This finding may provide a tool to improve current protocols of immunotherapy and insights to how tumor cells are or are not killed by LAK cells.
Thus, cosignaling via the LT-beta and TNF-alpha receptors is probably involved in the modulation of HIV-1 replication and the subsequent determination of HIV-1 viral burden in monocytes.
Intriguingly, surface expression of LT-alpha1beta2 is up-regulated on a T cell line acutely infected with HIV-1, suggesting a positive feedback loop between HIV-1 infection, LT-alpha1beta2 expression, and HIV-1 replication.
Given the critical role that LT-alpha1beta2 plays in lymphoid architecture, we speculate that LT-alpha1beta2 may be involved in HIV-associated abnormalities of the lymphoid organs.
The signaling events that link FGF receptor-1 engagement and NF-kappaB activation in Jurkat are probably distinct from the CD28 costimulation pathway, since FGF-1-induced Rel/kappaB binding proteins do not contain significant levels of c-Rel and are not identical with the CD28 response complex.
CTLA-4 ligation inhibited CD3/CD28-induced IL-2 mRNA accumulation by inhibiting IL-2 transcription, which appears to be mediated in part through decreasing NF-AT accumulation in the nuclei.
However, CTLA-4 ligation did not appear to affect the CD28-mediated stabilization of IL-2 mRNA.
These results indicate that CTLA-4 signaling inhibits events early in T cell activation both at IL-2 transcription and at the level of IL-2-independent events of the cell cycle, and does not simply oppose CD28-mediated costimulation.
We observed that HMDS, similar to bacterial lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-, increases the expression of CAT reporter gene suggesting increased activity of NF-kappaB.
It was postulated that this NF-kappaB-regulated promoter might play a role in the activation of the accessory cells as well as the rate of replication of HIV-1 in monocyte-derived macrophages.
These results indicate that ALG-4 is necessary and sufficient for FasL expression.
Activation of NF-kappaB is thought to be required for cytokine release from LPS-responsive cells, a critical step for endotoxic effects.
These findings suggest that a signal transduction molecule in the LPS receptor complex may belong to the IL-1 receptor/toll-like receptor -LRB- TLR -RRB- super family, and the LPS signaling cascade uses an analogous molecular framework for signaling as IL-1 in mononuclear phagocytes and endothelial cells.
These findings support a pathway by which LPS stimulation of neutrophils results in activation of MKK3, which in turn activates p38alpha MAPk, ultimately regulating adhesion, NF-kappaB activation, enhanced gene expression of TNF-alpha, and regulation of TNF-alpha synthesis.
Furthermore, inhibition can be blocked by actinomycin D, indicating a requirement for de novo transcription.
We propose a model in which stimulation of monocytes by IFN activates de novo synthesis of an inhibitory factor, possibly one or more members of the SOCS / SSI/CIS gene family, capable of suppressing activation of STAT6 by IL-4 and IL-13.
The results obtained by transient transfection of fos - CAT constructs that contained serial 5' - deletion mutations showed that the region between -3134 and -3059 appears to be required for the induction of transcription by LPS.
The results of supershift analysis using specific antibodies against transcription factors suggested that both binding complexes contained the NF-kappaB components p50 and p65, and did not contain other NF-kappaB proteins -LRB- p52, c-Rel, Rel B -RRB-, AP-1 proteins -LRB- c-Fos, C-Jun -RRB-, CREB or C/EBPbeta -LRB- NF-IL6 -RRB-.
These data indicated that two NF-kappaB-binding sites, which are located between -3134 and -3059, are critical for the activation of proIL-1beta gene transcription.
Specific staining as well as electron microscopic examinations revealed the accumulation of metal gold in the cells, supporting our previous hypothesis that gold ions could block NF-kappaB-DNA binding by a redox mechanism.
These observations indicate that the monovalent gold compound AuTG is a potentially useful drug for the treatment of patients infected with HIV.
These findings suggest that high-level IL-4 production in atopic Th2 cells is associated with selective reduction of suppressive NFAT1 activity at the IL-4 P0 element and that some patients with this multifactorial disease may have a putative systemic disorder at this level.
The aim of this study was to determine whether distinctive patterns of NF-kappa B activation are seen in different forms of joint disease.
CONCLUSION : Overall, the results suggest that NF-kappa B may play a central part in the activation of infiltrating T cells in chronic rheumatoid arthritis.
Finally, we found that the addition of NAC to MLR between naive T cells and allogeneic DC resulted in a profound inhibition of alloreactive responses, which could be attributed to a defect of DC as APC-independent T cell responses were not inhibited by NAC.
Altogether, our results suggest that NAC might impair the generation of primary immune responses in humans through its inhibitory action on DC.
Analyzed DNA sequences included delta and beta 5' flanking regions extending from approximately -500 to +50 bp -LRB- promoter regions -RRB-, truncated delta and beta 5' flanking regions extending from approximately -250 to +50 bp, and chimeric promoter constructions, which consisted of a distal delta or beta fragment fused to a proximal beta or delta sequence.
These results confirm that sequences in the upstream promoter region of the adult beta globin gene contribute to its factor-mediated suppression early in development and then may modulate its expression at a later stage.
Recent evidence indicates that the rate of progression of the HIV-1 disease is significantly reduced in thalassaemia major patients upon treatment with high doses of desferrioxamine -LRB- DFX -RRB-.
This mechanism may contribute to delayed progression of the HIV-1 infection in vivo.
The signal cascade transducing this effect is not yet clear.
In this study, we examined whether gp41-induced IL-10 up-regulation is mediated by the previously described synergistic activation of cAMP and NF-kappaB pathways.
Thus HIV-1 gp41-induced IL-10 up-regulation in monocytes may not involve NF-kappaB, MAPK, or PI 3-kinase activation, but rather may operate through activation of adenylate cyclase and pertussis-toxin-sensitive Gi/Go protein to effect p70 -LRB- S6 -RRB- - kinase activation.
Recent studies from our group suggested that the actions of D3 and retinoids on myelopoiesis also are influenced by endogenous mechanisms involving other steroid hormones.
In particular, our findings suggest that local metabolism of steroids by normal as well as leukemic myeloid cells influences their responsiveness to D3 and retinoids.
The phosphorylation appears to be related to the signaling events that are activated by TRAF2 under these circumstances, since two nonfunctional mutants were found to be phosphorylated significantly less than the wild-type protein.
We conclude from these studies that the phosphorylation of TRAF2 is likely to play an important role in regulating signaling by virtue of its ability to influence the CD40-TRAF2 interaction.
Furthermore, CoCl2 also caused time-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein -LRB- MAP -RRB- kinase isoform ERK2 without significantly affecting ERK1, indicating ERK2 is the preferred substrate for upstream kinase of the MAPK pathway.
Our data suggests that CoCl2-induced cellular signals directing increased expression of VCAM-1 in HUVEC involve downstream activation of MAP kinase and NF-kappaB, while the phosphorylation of PECAM-1 occurs as a result of activation of PKC.
This study was designed to determine whether changes in endothelial cell glutathione -LRB- GSH -RRB- or oxidized glutathione -LRB- GSSG -RRB- can alter neutrophil adhesivity and to define the molecular mechanism that underlies this GSSG/GSH-induced adhesion response.
These results suggest that a decline in proteasome activity results in a failure to fully degrade IkappaBalpha in the elderly.
This failure to degrade IkappaBalpha may underlie both the observed decrease in NFkappaB induction and the IL-2 receptor expression in TNF-treated T cells during aging.
Thus, decreased proteasome-mediated degradation may be central to immune dysfunction that accompanies aging.
Taken together, these results suggest that NF-kappa B plays a crucial role in ensuring the differentiation and survival of thymocytes in the early stages of their development.
To determine whether either or both of these transcription factors are involved in cell survival or cell cycle progression in response to IL-2, primary human T cells responsive to the growth factor were analyzed for NF-kappa B and AP-1 activation.
These results indicate that CD40-CD40L interactions may play an important role in augmenting antitumor immunity and inducing apoptosis in some CD40-positive immunogenic human MMs.
Furthermore, our results suggest that the induction of FasL versus cytokine gene expression is differentially sensitive to NF-kappaB deprivation.
The viral protein Tax induces the activation and nuclear translocalization of transcription factor NF-kappaB, which is proposed to play a crucial role in the transformation of T cells by HTLV-I.
Our results suggest that activation of NF-kappaB occurs through a Tax-independent mechanism in leukemic cells of ATL patients, possibly due to differential NF-kappaB subunit activation.
The CD34 + myelomonocytic cell line KG1 differentiates into dendritic-like cells in response to granulocyte-macrophage CSF plus TNF-alpha, or PMA -LRB- with or without the calcium ionophore ionomycin, or TNF-alpha -RRB-, with different stimuli mediating different aspects of the process.
Comparison of KG1 to the PMA-unresponsive subline KG1a reveals differences in expression of TNF receptors 1 and 2 ; PKC isoforms alpha, beta I, beta II, and mu ; and RelB, suggesting that these components/pathways are important for DC differentiation.
Together, these findings demonstrate that cytokine or phorbol ester stimulation of KG1 is a model of human CD34 + HPC to DC differentiation and suggest that specific intracellular signaling pathways mediate specific events in DC lineage commitment.
In summary, our results provide compelling evidence that NF-kappaB protects against Fas-mediated death and is likely to be an important regulator of T cell homeostasis and tolerance.
Functional expression of the IL-2Ralpha on mononuclear phagocytes in M. tuberculosis infection may play an important immunomodulatory role in the host response.
Interaction to DNA induces changes in the transcription rate, leading to either gene induction or gene repression.
Other factors are implicated in immortalization of common marmoset T lymphocytes and may also be critical in the transformation of human lymphocytes and rodent fibroblasts.
These results suggest that Fli-1 is likely to regulate lineage-specific genes during megakaryocytopoiesis.
This different behavior may be, at least in part, due to the ability of HTB and triflusal to block the activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB to a higher extent than aspirin and sodium salicylate.
Triflusal and HTB may exert beneficial effects in processes in which de novo COX-2 expression is involved and, in a broader sense, in pathological situations in which genes under nuclear factor-kappaB control are up-regulated.
These data suggest that, in this inflammatory model, initial activation of NF-kappaB occurs in alveolar macrophages and the ensuing production of TNF-alpha may propagate NF-kappaB activation to other cell types in the lung.
A monoclonal antibody specific to the glycosphingolipid lactosylceramide was able to inhibit activation of the NF-kappaB-like factor by PGG-Glucan, and ligand binding data, including polysaccharide specificity, suggested that the PGG-Glucan binding moiety was lactosylceramide.
These results indicate that PGG-Glucan enhances neutrophil anti-microbial functions and that interaction between this beta-glucan and human neutrophils is mediated by the glycosphingolipid lactosylceramide present at the cell surface.
According to current models the inhibitory capacity of I -LRB- kappa -RRB- B -LRB- alpha -RRB- would be mediated through the retention of Rel/NF-kappaB proteins in the cytosol.
Our results demonstrate that in resting and PMA-activated human PBL, I -LRB- kappa -RRB- B -LRB- alpha -RRB- is present in the nucleus in an apparently inactive form unable to disrupt NF-kappaB binding from DNA.
Our data suggests that NF-kappaB may function as an antiapoptotic factor in thymocytes while functioning as a proapoptotic factor in mature peripheral T cells.
This study strongly suggests that DZA may be a potent drug for the treatment of diseases in which NF-kappaB plays a central pathogenic role, as well as a useful tool for studying the regulation and physiological functions of NF-kappaB.
These observations suggest that a high WT1 expression in hematopoietic cells is incompatible with differentiation.
The mechanisms by which GATA-1 controls cell survival are unknown.
Together, our data show that bcl-xL is essential for normal erythroid development and suggest a regulatory hierarchy in which bcl-xL is a critical downstream effector of GATA-1 and erythropoietin-mediated signals.
Intracellular deletion variants of TLR2 lacking C-terminal 13 or 141 aa fail to recruit IRAK, which is consistent with the inability of these mutants to transmit LPS cellular signaling.
These results reveal a conserved signaling pathway for TLR2 and IL-1Rs and suggest a molecular mechanism for the inhibition of TLR2 by DN variants.
These results suggest that the activation signals in human B cells and monocytes differ following CD40 stimulation.
Taken together these results indicate that STAT1 plays a pivotal role in the differentiation/maturation process of monocytes as an early transcription factor initially activated by adherence and then able to modulate the expression of functional genes, such as ICAM-1 and FcgammaRI.
DNA fragmentation was efficiently blocked by the caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-fmk and partially blocked by Ac-DEVD-fmk, suggesting that SN50-mediated apoptosis is caspase-dependent.
These findings suggest either low level of activation is required or that different caspases are involved.
These data indicate that IL-11 is a regulatory cytokine in the lung and that, like other members of this family, its anti-inflammatory properties appear to be linked to its suppression of NF-kappaB activation, diminished production of TNF-alpha, and reduced up-regulation of lung vascular ICAM-1.
We determined the mechanism of NF-kappaB suppression in T cells of RCC patient and determined whether supernatant fluid from RCC explants -LRB- RCC-S -RRB- induced the same phenotype of NF-kappaB suppression in normal T cells that is observed in patient T cells.
It also appears that NF-kappaB suppression by RCC-S may contribute to the immunosuppression of host immunity.
CONCLUSION : Our findings suggest that AECA may directly stimulate EC in Takayasu arteritis through elevation of adhesion molecule expression associated with NF-kappaB activation and adhesion of monocytes, and may therefore play a pathogenic role in the development of the vasculopathy in Takayasu arteritis.
Possible differences in the mechanism -LRB- s -RRB- of action of different glucocorticoid hormone compounds.
These data are in agreement with the concept that different GCH compounds might differ in their binding and affinity properties, tissue-specific metabolism, and interaction with transcription factor.
Recent evidence suggests that the p53 molecule appears in two different forms : the mutant p53 that stimulates tumor progression, and wild type p53 that inhibits tumor progression.
In this paper we shall advance the hypothesis that : -LRB- i -RRB- TNF-alpha indirectly controls immune surveillance ; and -LRB- ii -RRB- TNF-alpha controls DNA repair and tumor suppression through the regulation of wild type p53.
Thus, it is hypothesized that elevated TNF-alpha is primarily responsible for promoting tumor progression.
Mutations of this site that destroyed potential ets transcription factor binding sites had reduced transcriptional activity.
This may imply a role for ets transcription factors in the production of TNF-alpha.
As p65 complexes are transcriptionally active in comparison to the p50 homodimer, this novel finding may provide insight on the origin of abnormal cytokine or other gene transcription in SLE patients.
Activation of TLRs by microbial lipoproteins may initiate innate defense mechanisms against infectious pathogens.
Alveolar macrophages are located directly in the surrounding of these cells, so that we suppose an interaction between epithelial cells and macrophages regarding to the release of inflammatory mediators.
These data suggest a ROI-dependent NF-kappaB mediated transcription of inflammatory cytokines in bronchial epithelial cells.
Activation of PPARgamma may play a role in the induction of differentiation of macrophages to foam cells that are associated with atherosclerotic lesions.
These data suggest that PPARgamma activation may play a role in monocyte differentiation and function analogous to its well-characterized role in adipocytes.
These findings indicate that MBP is selective among the eosinophil granule proteins as a stimulus for neutrophil IL-8 release and, further, that stimulation of neutrophil IL-8 release by MBP involves both transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulation.
We postulate that MBP-induced release of IL-8 by neutrophils may contribute to the pathophysiology of acute asthma and other inflammatory lung diseases.
Many of the effects of CD40 are believed to be achieved through altered gene expression.
Thus, our results suggest that CD40-mediated cell survival proceeds through NF-kappaB-dependent up-regulation of Bcl-2 family members.
To determine the functionality of both the C/EBP - and GATA - binding sites, we analyzed whether C/EBPbeta and GATA-1 can stimulate the MBP promoter in the C/EBPbeta and GATA-1 negative Jurkat T-cell line.
Our results provide the first evidence that both GATA-1 and C/EBPbeta synergistically transactivate the promoter of an eosinophil-specific granule protein gene and that FOG may act as a negative cofactor for the eosinophil lineage, unlike its positively regulatory function for the erythroid and megakaryocyte lineages.
These results indicate that within the TCR/CD3 signal transduction pathway both PKC and calcineurin are required for the effective activation of the IKK complex and NF-kappaB in T lymphocytes.
However, the molecular mechanism of Rb rescue of the class II genes is unknown.
However, the mechanism of the antiapoptotic effects is unclear.
Thus, it appears that paclitaxel and other drugs that disturb microtubule function kill cells at least in part through the induction of FasL.
Phosphorylated Bcl-2 can not bind calcineurin, and NFAT activation, FasL expression, and apoptosis can occur after Bcl-2 phosphorylation.
Our results indicate that ATRA as well as VD efficiently increases the nuclear abundance of VD receptor -LRB- VDR -RRB- and promotes monocytic differentiation.
Consistent with these findings, VD-responsive genes are induced by ATRA treatment of Kasumi-1 cells, suggesting that the genetic program underlying monocytic differentiation is activated.
The molecular mechanism by which ATRA increases the nuclear abundance of a functional VDR is still unknown, but our data clearly indicate that the M2 leukemic cell context is only permissive of monocytic differentiation.
In view of the nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NFkappaB -RRB- may play a central role in the initiation of atherosclerosis, prevention of the activation of NFkappaB represents an important role in protecting vascular injury.
Therefore we conclude that flavonoids may be of therapeutic value for vascular disease through down regulation of NFkappaB/IkappaB system.
The other major subpopulation expressing the CD4 receptor, namely, the double-positive -LRB- DP -RRB- CD4 -LRB- + -RRB- CD8 -LRB- + -RRB- CD3 -LRB- + / - -RRB- thymocytes, despite the entry of the virus, do not produce a significant level of virus, presumably because they are unresponsive to TNF and IL-7.
Together, these data suggest that in vivo, despite an efficient entry of the virus in all the CD4 -LRB- + -RRB- subpopulations, a high viral load may be generated exclusively within the mature CD4 -LRB- + -RRB- CD8 -LRB- - -RRB- CD3 -LRB- + -RRB- subset of thymocytes.
However, under conditions of inflammatory response after infection, TNF might also be present in the intermediate thymocyte compartment, leading to efficient HIV replication in these cells.
In addition, we demonstrate that NF-kappaB may be required for human CD34 -LRB- + -RRB- bone marrow cell clonogenic function and survival.
These results offer insight into a new role for NF-kappaB in maintaining survival and function in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and suggest that proposed strategies involving inhibition of NF-kappaB activation as an adjunct to cancer chemotherapy should be approached with caution.
It is concluded that this novel culture system, coupled with single-cell RT-PCR analysis, may eliminate the ambiguities intrinsic to molecular studies on heterogeneous populations of hematopoietic progenitors/precursors growing in culture, particularly in the initial stages of development.
In EBV infection most of the changes, including the early induction of cyclin D2, are dependent on expression of EBV genes, but an alteration in the E2F-4 profile was partly independent of viral gene expression, presumably occurring in response to signal transduction activated when the virus binds to its receptor, CD21.
These results indicate that activation of the CREB/ATF pathway by Tax is dispensable for the immortalization of T cells by HTLV-1, whereas activation of the NF-kappaB pathway may be critical.
Our results indicate that the signaling events initiated in PBMCs by oligomerization of CD4 at the D1/CDR2-loop can trigger HIV-1 upregulation in infected individuals.
Our results demonstrated that the growth-regulated expression of mammalian MCM5 and MCM6 genes, and presumably other MCM members, is primarily regulated by E2F through binding to multiple E2F sites in the promoters.
As HSF1 can function as both an activator of heat shock genes and a repressor of non-heat shock genes such as IL1B and c - fos, we have examined the potential role of HSF1 in the effects of NSAIDs on gene expression in a human monocytic cell line THP-1.
At least in the case of the IL1B promoter, repression did not seem to involve another factor whose activity is affected by the NSAIDs, NFkappaB as the IL1B promoter fragment used in our studies is not NFkappaB responsive and binds specifically to HSF1.
These findings reflect the properties of HSF1 which can be activated to at least two DNA binding forms only one of which activates heat shock promoters and suggest that individual NSAID family members may differentially induce one or other of these forms.
Overall therefore, exposure to NSAIDs leads to a profound switch in gene expression in monocytic cells, with suppression of genes involved in macrophage activation and induction of stress genes and HSF1 appears to play a regulatory role in these effects.
These observations suggest possible mechanisms by which Id3 overexpression can differentially affect development of pre-T cells into TCRalpha beta and gamma delta cells.
These findings suggest that bHLH factors are required to control T cell development after the T/NK developmental checkpoint.
These results demonstrate that c-Rel can trigger the Notch signaling pathway in neighboring cells by inducing jagged1 gene expression, and suggest a role for Jagged1 in B-cell activation, differentiation or function.
These findings also highlight the potential for an interplay between the Notch and NF-kappaB signaling pathways in the immune system.
Control of IL-5 production may be effective for the management of allergic diseases.
A unique transcriptional mechanism distinct from those regulating the IL-2 or IL-4 genes seems to control the IL-5 gene.
Selective regulation of IL-5 gene transcription may be useful for treating eosinophlic inflammation.
Here we investigate the hypothesis that low shear-induced activation of NF-kappaB is responsible for enhanced expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule -LRB- VCAM-1 -RRB- resulting in augmented endothelial cell-monocyte -LRB- EC-Mn -RRB- adhesion and that this activation is dependent on intracellular oxidant activity.
These data suggest that NF-kappaB plays a key role in low shear-induced VCAM-1 expression and that pathways mediating low shear - and cytokine-induced EC-Mn adhesion may be differentially regulated.
The mechanisms by which beta-catenin undergoes this shift in location and participates in activation of gene transcription are unknown.
We demonstrate here that beta-catenin can be imported into the nucleus independently of LEF/TCF binding, and it may also be exported from nuclei.
This Delta19 beta-catenin mutant localizes to the nucleus because it may not be efficiently sequestered in the cytoplasm.
Taken together, these data suggest that a third component is necessary for gene activation and that this third component may vary with cell type.
Altogether, these results indicate that the IL-10-induced up-regulation of cytokine production depends on the prevention of monocyte adherence by red cells in the whole blood assays or by cultures of PBMC on Teflon.
Strict dependence of HS I activity on a GATA site implies that assembly of a protein complex containing a GATA-factor, presumably GATA-1 or GATA-2, is critical to activating or maintaining its function.
In contrast, rolling of monocytes was increased by IkappaB-alpha transfer and was partly mediated by P-selectin ; however, it appeared to be unaffected by the inhibition of E-selectin induction.
To determine whether it is possible to artificially enhance the opening of the chromatin structure of a minimal beta-globin promoter, we placed a 101bp, erythroid-specific DNase 1 hypersensitive site-forming element -LRB- HSFE -RRB- immediately upstream of the beta-globin promoter and gene.
These results indicate that a relatively small cis-acting element is able to enhance remodeling of promoter chromatin structure resulting in increased beta-globin gene expression.
Surprisingly, we find also that the interaction between SLP-76 and Vav is not required for their cooperation in augmenting IL-2 promoter activity, as the two molecules appear to function in different signaling pathways upstream of IL-2 gene expression.
These findings suggest that the synergy between SLP-76 and Vav in regulating IL-2 gene expression reflects the cooperation between different signaling pathways.
The results reported herein indicate that the molecular mechanisms involved in CD28 cosignaling and regulation of IL-2 secretion in LP T cells are unique to that compartment and differ from those seen in peripheral blood T cells.
These observations suggest a biological significance for different mechanisms of IL-2 activation in initiation and maintenance of the cytokine repertoire found in the mucosa.
These results point out the involvement of NF-kappa B/Rel family proteins in growth signaling pathways by either regulating proteins involved in the IL-2 signaling or by functionally interfering with the cell cycle progression.
Based on these and our recent findings of associations between Ikaros and Mi-2-HDAC, we propose that Ikaros family members modulate gene expression during lymphocyte development by recruiting distinct histone deacetylase complexes to specific promoters.
In addition to increasing our understanding of the molecular pathways that regulate T cell development and function, these results have suggested novel targets for genetic and pharmacological manipulation of T cell immunity.
Therefore, IRF-1 may be an important contributor to IL-12 signaling, and we speculate that the defective IL-12 responses seen in IRF-1 - / - mice might be attributable, in part, to the absence of this transcription factor.
Restoration of terminal differentiation in the mouse erythroleukemia -LRB- MEL -RRB- cells requires a decline in the level of PU .1, indicating that PU .1 can block erythroid differentiation.
Our results indicate that the stoichiometry of directly interacting but opposing transcription factors may be a crucial determinant governing processes of normal differentiation and malignant transformation.
Functional analysis indicates that the BRs are involved in control of hIL-5 promoter activity.
CONCLUSION : We suggest that Oct1, YY1, and octamer-like factors binding to the -90 / -79 sequence within the proximal IL-5 promoter are involved in suppression of IL-5 transcription in T cells.
These studies strongly suggest that the process of differentiation of monocytes into alveolar macrophages is associated with a loss of REF-1 and AP-1 activity.
This observation may explain, in part, some of the functional differences observed for alveolar macrophages compared with monocytes.
Regrettably, recent evidence suggests that loss-of-function alone is not always sufficient to prevent the emergence of virulent mutants.
Even with a therapy as specific as anti-TNF antibody, it is not clear if the benefit is attributable to simple binding and clearance of TNF-alpha or to binding on the cell surface and subsequent deletion of the activated macrophage.
When a drug appears to be less effective than preclinical models suggest, can failures in effectiveness from delivery or dosing be differentiated ?.
The variability of response even to the most narrowly targeted agents suggests that these diseases are far more heterogeneous in humans than in their murine counterparts.
Clinicians are only just beginning to recognize subclinical markers of response, and it may soon be possible to predict response on the basis of genetic composition.
Only through considered evaluation of clinical evidence may clinicians determine which therapies should remain novelties and which should become an accepted part of the armamentarium.
Genetic variation in cytokine promoter regions is postulated to influence susceptibility to infection, but the molecular mechanisms by which such polymorphisms might affect gene regulation are unknown.
Better understanding of transcriptional regulation of adhesion molecules in ECs may provide important insight into plaque formation.
Transient transfection of deletional VCAM-1 promoter constructs and electrophoretic mobility shift assays suggest that fenofibrate inhibits VCAM-1 transcription in part by inhibiting NF-kappaB.
CONCLUSIONS : Human ECs express PPARalpha, a potentially important regulator of atherogenesis through its transcriptional control of VCAM-1 gene expression.
We therefore tested the possibility that the GM-CSF gene is also regulated by a cognate motif for the NF-kappa B transcription factor.
Nuclear factor of activated T-cells -LRB- NFAT-1 -RRB- is a transcription factor which is considered to be an important regulator in early T-cell activation.
NFAT-1 activity had previously been thought to be confined to activated T-lymphocytes upon release of intracellular calcium.
This similarity in expression and the fact that NFAT-1 has been shown to bind functional sequences in HIV-LTR suggest a role for NFAT-1 in dermal activation of the HIV-LTR.
The cAMP-response element CRE, TGACGTCA, present in the 21 base-pair sequence, appears to be essential for specific protein-TRE-DNA interactions because mutation of the two G 's destroys this complex.
This result suggests that the cAMP response element binding protein, CREB, is involved in the protein-TRE-DNA complex and in mediating the Tax response.
Some of these proteins -LRB- referred to as OTF-2 -RRB- are lymphoid specific, whereas at least one other, and possibly more -LRB- referred to as OTF-1 -RRB-, is found ubiquitously in all cell types.
The exact role of these different proteins in directing the tissue-specific expression of immunoglobulin genes is unclear.
Furthermore, OFT-1 appeared to have approximately the same transactivation ability as OTF-2 when normalized for binding activity.
These results suggest that OTF-1, without OTF-2, is sufficient for transcription of immunoglobulin genes and that OTF-2 alone is not responsible for the B-cell-specific regulation of immunoglobulin gene expression.
This `` octamer '' in the context of DRA appears capable of binding both the ubiquitous -LRB- OTF-1 -RRB- and lymphoid-specific -LRB- OTF-2 -RRB- `` octamer '' binding proteins, but at least one other distinct `` octamer '' complex was found.
Using supercoiled, but not linear templates, we observed differences in transcription efficiencies from templates lacking or disrupting the X consensus element that reflect effects of random replacement of X box sequences in transient expression assays.
Demonstration of the complete dependence on the Y box in this system suggests that, despite its demonstrated importance in the DRA promoter, the DRA `` octamer '' does not utilize OTF-2 in a manner analogous to immunoglobulin promoters in B cells.
T cell activation results in high levels of HIV replication and is thought to be one mechanism leading to the conversion from latent to active viral infection.
In conclusion, HIV-1 and HIV-2 are differentially regulated by T cell activation signals, and this difference may account for the longer period of viral latency observed with HIV-2 than with HIV-1 infection.
The ds phosphorothioate oligonucleotides probably compete for binding of specific transcription factors and may provide anti-viral, immunosuppressive, or other therapeutic effects.
In lymphocytes, the octamer-binding protein Oct-2A and variants thereof are thought to contribute to the B-cell specific gene expression, while the ubiquitous protein Oct-1 seems to control general octamer site-dependent transcription.
We therefore speculate that N-Oct-3 and other N-Oct factors have a specific role in gene expression in cells of the nervous system.
Paramyxovirus infection induced a 5 - to 10-fold increase in the steady-state level of TNF-alpha RNA in U9-IIIB cells compared with U937 cells, suggesting that HIV-infected monocytic cells produced higher levels of TNF-alpha than did normal cells after a secondary virus infection.
This level of NF-kappa B-independent activity appears to be sufficient for virus multiplication, since TNF-alpha treatment had no effect on the kinetics of de novo HIV type 1 -LRB- HIV-1 -RRB- infection and viral RNA production in U937 cells.
However, in Jurkat cells, TNF-alpha dramatically enhanced the spread of HIV-1 through the cell population and increased viral RNA synthesis, indicating that in T cells HIV-1 multiplication was stimulated by TNF-alpha treatment.
Cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB- is thought to exert its immunosuppressive effects by inhibiting the expression of a distinct set of lymphokine genes which are induced upon T-cell activation, among them the gene coding for interleukin-2.
This suggests a model in which functionally indistinguishable kappa B complexes can be activated via two separate pathways of signal transduction distinguishable by CsA.
This effect appears to be mediated through the induction of nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB-.
The effect of LPS on HIV-1 replication occurs at picogram per milliliter concentrations and may be clinically significant in understanding the variability of the natural history of HIV-1 infection.
This inhibitor did not affect protein kinase C-mediated gene transcription, suggesting that cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinases are involved in the signal transduction pathway for IL-1 in a number of responsive cell types.
The predicted periplasmic domain of the PhoQ protein contained a markedly anionic domain that could interact with cationic proteins and that could be responsible for resistance to defensin.
Because insertion mutations in phoP are polar on phoQ, we constructed strains that expressed the PhoQ protein in the absence of PhoP to test whether resistance to defensin requires only the phoQ gene product.
This implied that a pag -LRB- phoP-activated gene -RRB- product is responsible for defensin resistance.
In nuclear run-on analysis, such tolerant cells show only a low degree of transcription, indicating that tolerance operates at or upstream of the transcription level.
The CD14 LPS receptor is, however, up-regulated -LRB- not down-regulated -RRB- in tolerant cells, and LPS can, in fact, still lead to activation of tolerant cells as evidenced by mobilization of the transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB-.
This increase in p50 homodimers coincides with an increase in p105 mRNA, suggestive of a transcriptional up-regulation of p50.
Protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- does not appear to play a role in the alpha-tcp effect since no suppression of phosphorylation of PKC substrates was observed.
It has been hypothesized that alpha-tcp acts as an anti-atherosclerotic molecule by inhibiting generation of oxidized LDL -- a putative triggering molecule in the atherosclerotic process.
Furthermore, we confirmed the previous report that FK506 suppressed the PMA/ionomycin-induced activation through authentic kappa B site of immunoglobulin -LRB- Ig -RRB- gene, to which NF-kappa B binding was also decreased by FK506, indicating that both IL-8 kappa B-like site and Ig kappa B site are FK506-sensitive in spite of the difference of binding factors.
Our results indicate that not only the reported IL-2 NF-AT and NFIL-2A sites and Ig kappa B site, but also the IL-8 AP-1 and kappa B-like sites are terminals of FK506-sensitive pathway involving Ca2 + mobilization.
CD14 Sp1 site oligonucleotides bound preferentially to a 105-kDa Sp1 species, which is present in higher relative levels in monocytic than non-monocytic cells, suggesting that modification of Sp1, such as phosphorylation, may explain how the Sp1 site mediates monocytic specific promoter activity.
Functional studies with IL-6 promoter demonstrated that three regions are the targets of the IFN-gamma and/or TNF-alpha action, whereas only one of these regions seemed to be implicated in LPS activation.
The three regions concerned are : 1 -RRB- a region between -73 and -36, which is the minimal element inducible by LPS or TNF-alpha ; 2 -RRB- an element located between -181 and -73, which appeared to regulate the response to IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha negatively ; and 3 -RRB- a distal element upstream of -224, which was inducible by IFN-gamma alone.
As a likely consequence of these events, thrombin activated the nuclear factor NF-kB.
It has long been a puzzle that MHC class II molecules are expressed in human T cells after activation but not in mouse T cells ; this expression is believed to play a role in the cell mediated immune response.
These data indicate that the expression of CIITA explains the expression or lack of expression of MHC class II in human and mouse T cells respectively.
Stimulation of cells leads to a rapid phosphorylation of I kappa B alpha, which is presumed to be important for the subsequent degradation.
These results suggested that the bound kinase is involved in the signaling pathway of LPS by inducing the phosphorylation of the C-terminal region of I kappa B alpha and subsequent dissociation of the NF-kappa B.I kappa B alpha complex.
Deoxycholate treatment of the cytoplasmic extract prepared from cells stimulated by TNF-alpha in the presence of Cu2 + resulted in the release of NF kappa B from I kappa B alpha, indicating that Cu2 + interferes with the dissociation of the NF kappa B-I kappa B complex.
These results indicate that Cu2 + inhibits the release of NF kappa B by blockade of a signal leading to the phosphorylation of I kappa B alpha.
These results indicated that salicylates inhibited LPS induction of TF gene transcription in monocytic cells by preventing nuclear translocation of c-Rel/p65 heterodimers.
The clinical benefits of salicylates in the treatment of several diseases, including atherosclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis, may be related to their ability to reduce monocyte gene expression.
These observations demonstrate directly that there is de novo synthesis of NF-kappa B during human lymphocyte activation and suggest that this process is hormonally regulated.
However, DCs lack Sp1, which may explain the failure of HIV-1 to replicate in purified DCs.
It appears that the B cell-specific expression of Ig genes is mediated at least in part by cell type-specific Oct factors, and that there are both quantitative and qualitative differences between Oct-1 and Oct-2 factors.
Many of these may be created by alternative splicing of a primary transcript of one Oct factor gene and may serve a specific function in the fine tuning of gene expression.
Together these data suggest that ETS1 may be involved in mediating the increased GM-CSF production associated with T cell activation.
Thus, depending on the cellular environment, the short - and long-term effects of Tax expression can be quite different.
Consequently, one function of Tax in cells infected with HTLV-I might involve cell-type-specific suppression, as opposed to activation, of distinct signal pathways.
The cells lines described here should be useful for the delineation of signaling pathways utilized in the selective regulation of gene expression.
Thus, c-Fos/c-Jun heterodimers might contribute to the repression of DRA gene expression.
The human immunodeficiency viruses -LRB- HIVs -RRB- may include a spectrum of retroviruses with varying potential to infect their host, undergo long periods of latent infection, and induce pathology.
The second enhancer interacts with two nuclear binding proteins -LRB- 85 kD and 27 kD mobility -RRB- that appear to be required for optimal enhancer function and activation.
Observations such as these encourage the speculation that there may be subtle differences in the regulation of HIV-1 and HIV-2 expression that may be relevant to the possible longer latency and reduced pathogenicity of HIV-2.
While the HIV-2 and HIV-1 tat genes and T-cell activators apparently employ independent modes of action, the CMV transactivator in combination with the HIV-2 tat or T-cell activators may employ a gene activation pathway with some common and some distinct components.
A significant proportion of transcripts appear to terminate prematurely in the absence of transactivators.
Deletion mutation analysis of the HIV-2 long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- suggests that the element that responds to CMV transactivation in human CD4 + lymphocytes is either a diffuse one or located downstream of the HIV-2 enhancer element.
Since NF-kappaB/IkappaB system regulates the transcription of proinflammatory genes, including those responsible for ROS generation, we tested the hypothesis that hydrocortisone may stimulate IkappaB production thus inhibiting NF-kappaB translocation from the cytosol into the nucleus in MNC, in vivo.
Compounds that interfere selectively with the calcineurin-NFAT interaction without affecting calcineurin phosphatase activity may be useful as therapeutic agents that are less toxic than current drugs.
Taken together, our findings suggest that tumor-derived gangliosides may blunt antitumor immune responses in patients with RCCs.
These data indicate that TNFalpha induces a delayed ROS-dependent signalling pathway that is required for NF-kappaB transcriptional activation and is separable from that required for its nuclear translocation.
We wished to determine if this developmentally related interaction is a consequence of myeloid differentiation or an intrinsic differentiating stimulus.
Analysis of targets that could mediate these phenotypic changes indicated that c-Maf likely plays a key role in myeloid cell development through dual mechanisms ; inhibition of a select set of c-Myb regulated targets, such as Bcl-2 and CD13/APN, coupled with the activation of as yet undefined differentiation-promoting genes.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 -LRB- HTLV-1 -RRB- Tax is thought to play a pivotal role in immortalization of T cells.
Deletion or substitution of a putative NF-kappaB binding site identified in the bcl-x promoter significantly decreased Tax-induced transactivation.
Our findings suggest that constitutive expression of Bcl-x -LRB- L -RRB- induced by Tax through the NF-kappaB pathway contributes to the inhibition of apoptosis in CTLL-2 cells after IL-2 deprivation.
A role for retinoic acid during neutrophil maturation has been suggested from a variety of sources.
However, in contrast with TNF-alpha, dopamine treatment did not affect NF-kappaB DNA binding activity nor the concentrations of p50, p65 and IkappaB-alpha proteins, which suggests a distinct NF-kappaB activation mechanism.
To understand the function of AML1 during B cell differentiation, we analyzed regulatory regions of B cell-specific genes for potential AML1-binding sites and have identified a putative AML1-binding site in the promoter of the B cell-specific tyrosine kinase gene, blk.
These results demonstrate physical and functional interactions between AML1 and BSAP and suggest that AML1 is an important factor for regulating a critical B cell-specific gene, blk.
NIK can not phosphorylate IkappaB-alpha directly, but it appears to be a functionally important subunit, because mutated NIK inhibited stimulus-induced kappaB-dependent transcription more effectively than mutated IKK-alpha or - beta.
The understanding of LPS - and TNF-induced signaling may allow the development of specific strategies to treat sepsis-associated disease.
Remarkably, these two drugs inhibit each other 's actions, raising the possibility that both act by means of a common immunophilin -LRB- immunosuppressant binding protein -RRB-.
The drug concentrations required for antagonism may be explained by the relative affinity of the drugs to, and by the abundance of, the immunophilin FKBP.
Rather, these findings suggest that immunophilin bound to FK506 interferes with antigen receptor-induced signals, while rapamycin bound to the immunophilin interferes with IL-2-induced signals.
The latter one appears to be mediated by a rapidly calcium-dependent induced gene product.
These genes may then play a role in altering the physiologic status of the cells in response to CSF.
Our finding that induction of NF-kappa B by tumor necrosis factor or antibody to CD3 is not sufficient to induce HIV enhancer-dependent transcription in cloned T cells contrasts with results obtained in most lymphoblastoid T-cell lines and indicates that normal T lymphocytes differ from tumoral T cells in terms of requirements for HIV LTR activation.
Furthermore, our results suggest that events linked to T-cell activation, in addition to NF-kappa B translocation per se, induce functional interactions of the NF-kappa B complex with the HIV enhancer.
Induction of the enhancer may have a role in the increase in globin gene transcription that characterizes erythroid maturation.
Enhancer activity appears to be mediated by the binding of a complex of proteins from the jun and fos families to tandem AP-1 consensus sequences.
We hypothesized that adherence itself might be an important trigger for a sequence of gene activation culminating in cells with increased mRNA encoding profibrotic growth factors such as platelet-derived growth factor B subunit -LRB- PDGF -LSB- B -RSB- -RRB- and transforming growth factor-beta -LRB- TGF-beta -RRB-.
These observations suggest that adherence results in increases of c-fos, c-jun, EGR2, and PDGF -LRB- B -RRB- mRNA.
In addition, the increases in c-jun, EGR2, and PDGF -LRB- B -RRB- may depend on cytoskeletal rearrangement.
Modulation of these events at the time of adherence offers a mechanism by which differential priming of the cells may be accomplished.
Sex steroid regulation of the production of this molecule, as well as other cytokines, may help explain the gender-specific differences in the immune system, including autoimmunity.
Further results, in which beta-gal activity is correlated with NF-AT-binding activity, indicate that the concentration of NF-AT must exceed a critical threshold before transcription initiates.
This threshold likely reflects the NF-AT concentration-dependent assembly of transcription complexes at the promoter.
Similar constructs controlled by NF-kappa B or the entire interleukin-2 enhancer show bimodal expression patterns during induction, suggesting that thresholds set by the concentration of transcription factors may be a common property of inducible genes.
These findings suggested that the increase in c-jun RNA observed during TPA-induced monocytic differentiation is mediated by both transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms.
The OTF interactions we observed extended over the heptamer element 5' - CTCAGGA-3', and it seems likely that the binding of the purified factors involves cooperation between octamer and heptamer sites in this promoter.
Based on these results, we propose that NTF and OTF2 interactions -LRB- both with their cognate DNA elements and possibly at the protein-protein level -RRB- may be critical to B-cell-specific expression and that these interactions provide additional pathways for regulating gene expression.
To determine whether enhancer elements in addition to the highly conserved octamer -LRB- OCTA -RRB- - nucleotide motif are important for lymphoid-specific expression of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain -LRB- IgH -RRB- gene, we have investigated the effect of mutating the binding site for a putative additional lymphoid-specific transcription factor, designated NF-microB, in the murine IgH enhancer.
Our results suggest that the microB element is a new crucial element important for lymphoid-specific expression of the IgH gene but that interaction with another enhancer element is essential for its activity.
These results demonstrate that the transcription of nuclear protooncogenes is regulated by heat shock indicating a role for nuclear protooncogenes in the stress response of lymphoid cells.
Sequences related to the TCF-1 alpha binding motif -LRB- 5' - GGCACCCTTTGA-3' -RRB- are also found in the human TCR delta -LRB- and possibly TCR beta -RRB- enhancers.
A small 95-bp fragment of the TCR alpha control region that contains the TCF-1 alpha binding site juxtaposed between a cAMP-response element -LRB- the CRE or T alpha 1 motif -RRB- and the binding site for a distinct lymphoid-specific protein -LRB- TCF-2 alpha -RRB- behaved as a potent T-cell-specific enhancer in vivo.
Thus, the transcriptional activity of TCF-1 alpha appears to depend on the TCF-2 alpha and T alpha 1 -LRB- CREB -RRB- transcription factors and the context of its binding site within the TCR alpha enhancer.
Although the TCE is similar in sequence to a consensus NF kappa B site, several criteria indicate that TCF-1 is distinct from NF kappa B..
Each binding site contributes to the overall activity of the enhancer, however no single element seems absolutely required for activity.
However, despite its ability to activate transcription of a transfected reporter gene, the factor is apparently unable to bind to the endogenous Ig heavy chain enhancer in non-lymphoid cells : In previous experiments by others, the characteristic in vivo footprint of this factor, designated NF-muE3, was detected in B cells but not in non-B cells.
This factor is present in an active form in a variety of cell types but is apparently unable to bind to the endogenous Ig heavy chain enhancer in non-B cells, perhaps due to a non-permissive chromatin structure of the Ig heavy chain locus.
These results imply that at least three signals are required to activate the GM-CSF proximal promoter, and that the signals impinge on distinct transcription factors that bind to the hCLEO and NF-kappa B regions of the promoter.
Because these are the characteristics of a signal transducer and activator of transcription -LRB- Stat -RRB- protein, we determined whether antibodies to Stat proteins will interfere with gel mobility shift and found that antibodies to IL-4 Stat, also known as Stat6, but not antibodies to other Stat proteins, interfere with the formation of the IL-4 NAF complex.
Thus, Oct-2A and HMG I/Y may synergize to activate HLA-DRA expression in B cells.
We conclude that distinct sets of transcription factors are involved in the two modes of HLA-DRA expression, and that HMG I/Y may be important for B cell-specific expression, and is essential for IFN-gamma induction.
Activation of NF-kappa B by various cellular stimuli involves the phosphorylation and subsequent degradation of its inhibitor, I kappa B alpha, although the underlying mechanism remains unclear.
Furthermore, the phosphorylated I kappa B alpha from calyculin A-treated cells, but not that from TNF-alpha-stimulated cells, is sensitive to PP-2A in vitro, suggesting the existence of fundamental differences in the phosphorylation of I kappa B alpha induced by the two different NF-kappa B inducers.
Together, these results suggest that phosphorylation of I kappa B alpha, mediated through both the TNF-alpha-inducible and the PP-2A-opposing kinases, may serve to target I kappa B alpha for proteasome-mediated degradation.
Our data suggest that lipoxygenase metabolites activate ROI formation which then induce IL-2 expression via NF-kappa B activation.
These findings should be useful for therapeutic strategies and the development of immunosuppressants targeting the CD28 costimulatory pathway.
To determine if platelet thromboxane receptors are under transcriptional control, we isolated and characterized human genomic DNA clones containing the 5' flanking region of the thromboxane receptor gene.
These findings strongly suggest that the mechanism for previously described upregulation of platelet thromboxane receptors after acute myocardial infarction is increased thromboxane receptor gene transcription in platelet-progenitor cells.
Both nuclear run-on and actinomycin D pulse experiments strongly indicate that HU regulates c-jun mRNA expression by increasing the rate of synthesis as well as stabilizing the c-jun mRNA.
These results strongly suggest that HU induces both transcriptional and post-transcription regulation of c-jun during erythroid differentiation.
Lymphocytes are particularly susceptible to DNA damage-induced apoptosis, a response which may serve as a form of ` altruistic suicide' to counter their intrinsic high potential for mutation and clonal expansion.
The tumour suppressor p53 has been shown to regulate this type of apoptosis in thymocytes, but an as yet unknown, p53-independent pathway -LRB- s -RRB- appears to mediate the same event in mitogen-activated mature T lymphocytes.
Monocyte/macrophages may harbor HIV in a nonproductive fashion for prolonged periods of time.
Viral gene expression may be reactivated by stimulation of the cells with LPS or cytokines such as TNF-alpha in vitro.
Taken together, these observations suggest that HIV gene expression may be activated in infected monocytes through interaction of the cells with complement-opsonized particles and that enhanced viral replication is associated with C3 receptor-mediated nuclear translocation of the NF-kappa B complex.
We have investigated whether this synergy is present in other cell types and the mechanism -LRB- s -RRB- by which these two pathways lead to NF-kappa B activation.
These results indicate that Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - dependent pathways, including the phosphatase calcineurin, participate in the regulation of NF-kappa B in a cell specific fashion and synergize with PKC-dependent and - independent pathways at the level of IkB alpha phosphorylation and degradation.
Analysis of the nuclear extracts with anti-STAT Abs indicated that they contained STAT-3 and additional proteins crossreactive with the STAT family.
The induction of STAT activity was inhibited completely by pretreatment with either cycloheximide or cyclosporin A, thus indicating that the induction was due to a secondary factor produced by the activated T cells.
The role of p95vav in TCR-mediated signaling processes is unclear.
In contrast, NFAT activation by a G-protein-coupled receptor is not modulated by p95vav overexpression, suggesting that the effect is specific to the TCR signaling pathways.
Although removal of the first 67 amino acids of p95vav activates its transforming potential in NIH 3T3 cells, this region appears to be required for its function in T cells.
Furthermore, the activating function of p95vav is blocked by FK506, suggesting that its activity also depends on calcineurin.
However, overexpression of p95vav does not appear to influence TCR-induced protein tyrosine phosphorylation or increases in cytoplasmic free calcium.
Taken together, our data suggest that p95vav plays an important role at an yet unidentified proximal position in the TCR signaling cascade.
TG plus phorbol myristate acetate -LRB- PMA -RRB- but not TG alone induced IL-2 in Jurkat T cells, suggesting that TG had no effect on protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB-.
However, TG and PMA exhibited a synergistic action on IL-2R alpha expression, suggesting that TG and PMA induce IL-2R alpha through distinct pathways.
In toto, these results suggest that TG induces IL-2R alpha in human T cells through a PKC-independent pathway.
While a nuclear factor -LRB- s -RRB- from both peripheral blood monocytes and T cells binds the peri-kappa B site, electrophoretic mobility shift assays suggest that either a different protein binds to this site in monocytes versus T cells or that the protein recognizing this enhancer element undergoes differential modification in monocytes and T cells, thus supporting the transfection data.
Understanding the monocyte-specific function of the peri-kappa B factor may ultimately provide insight into the different role monocytes and T cells play in HIV pathogenesis.
Although further studies are required to determine the precise role of PEBP2 in the GM-CSF promoter activity, the present findings suggested the importance of the relative ratio of different PEBP2 isoforms in regulating the levels of the promoter activity.
Primer extension and ribonuclease protection analyses indicate a single major transcriptional start site.
By these functional criteria, we believe we have identified two structurally distinct, novel inhibitors of NFAT-1-mediated transcription.
These results suggest a critical role of the ZIP site for IL-2 promoter activity.
These studies identify p21ras as a target of NO in T cells and suggest that NO activates p21ras by an action which mimics that of guanine nucleotide exchange factors.
These results suggest that IL-1 induces both NF-kappa B nuclear translocation and the synthesis of a protein -LRB- s -RRB- responsible for terminating NF-kappa B-DNA interaction in the nucleus.
Antigen receptor signals prolong NF-kappa B-DNA interaction, probably by functionally antagonizing the IL-1-induced synthesis of a protein -LRB- s -RRB- responsible for the transient NF-kappa B-DNA interaction and consequently synergistically enhance IL-1-induced NF-kappa B-dependent gene transcription.
To understand the extent to which ALD may mimic mitogenic stimulation, we studied cytoplasmic and nuclear signaling steps in ALD-treated T cells.
These data suggest that ALD cause transient but significant changes in T cell transmembrane signaling, although some events induced by stimulation with anti-CD3 antibodies are not induced by ALD.
We also propose that the NGFI-B/nur77 family can be classified into two subtypes.
These functions of PAF appeared to be mediated through the cell surface PAF receptors, as two PAF receptor antagonists, WEB 2086 and L-659 ,989, blocked both the up-regulation of HB-EGF mRNA and kappa B binding activity induced by PAF.
These results suggest a potential role of PAF in HB-EGF expression and provide evidence that this stimulation may occur through increased kappa B binding activity.
The viral encoded protein tax, is thought to play an important role in oncogenesis.
Constitutive phosphorylation of Jak kinases may facilitate tumor growth in both HTLV-1 infected human T cells and the transgenic mouse model.
Protein-DNA binding studies suggested that Sp1 and two other CCGCCC binding proteins from erythroid and non-erythroid cells could bind to the Sp1 binding motif.
These data suggest that while GATA-1 can transactivate the EpoR promoter, the level of hEpoR gene expression does not depend on GATA-1 alone.
Rather, hEpoR transcription activity depends on coordination between Sp1 and GATA-1 with other cell-specific factors, including possibly other Sp1-like binding proteins, to provide high level, tissue-specific expression.
Several studies have established that Tat releases an elongation block to the transcription of HIV long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- ; however, it is not known whether this mechanism alone is sufficient to explain the block to HIV replication in human T cells when Tat is absent.
It is possible that Tat is also needed for other functions during HIV replication.
Direct sequencing of the viral genomes and reinfection kinetics showed no evidence of wild-type reversion even after prolonged infection with the Tat - virus.
The putative factors that couple the signal transduction from surface receptors to the activation of cytokine synthesis in natural killer -LRB- NK -RRB- cells have not been elucidated.
The results of supershift assays using NFATp - and NFATc - specific antibodies indicate that NK cell activation early after CD16 ligand binding involves primarily, if not exclusively, NFATp, and Western blot analysis shows that this has the same electrophoretic mobility -LRB- approximately 120 kD -RRB- as that of T lymphocytes.
The mechanism of generation of p50 is not known.
It has been suggested that the ubiquitin-proteasome system is involved in the process ; however, the specific enzymes involved and the mechanism of limited proteolysis, in which half of the molecule is spared, have been obscure.
PU .1 seems to be required for early development of multiple hematopoietic lineages, but its expression in mature cells is preferentially observed in cells of the B-cell-and monocyte/macrophage-differentiation lineage.
At present, it is unclear whether the lack of PU .1 expression and activity in human multiple myeloma cell lines represents a malignancy-associated defect in these cells or exemplifies a normal developmental regulation in terminally differentiated B cells.
These data indicate that TCL1 is activated in preleukemic clonal cells as a consequence of chromosome translocation involving sequences from the TCR locus at 14q11.
Deregulation of TCL1 is the first event in the initiation of malignancy in these types of leukemias and represents a potential tool for clinical evaluation.
In EBV-transformed B clones, the chi B site exerted the strongest inducible activity ; the NF-AT binding sites showed either no or only weak activity compared to Jurkat T cells.
These results demonstrate that the IL-2 NF-chi B site is indispensable for the activity of the IL-2 promoter in EBV-transformed B cells, whereas other transcription factors appear to be less important for IL-2 expression in these cells.
This hypothetical model integrates one mechanism of DNA repair with the cell cycle control of gene transcription, likely through E2F.
This implicates E2F as a multifunctional target for proteins and enzymes, possibly, responsive to DNA damage through the negative effect of UDG on E2F-mediated transcriptional activity.
The demonstration that NF-kappa B can regulate I kappa B alpha/MAD -3 gene transcription in other cell types suggested that the rapid increase in steady-state I kappa B alpha/MAD -3 mRNA levels we observed within 30 min of monocyte adherence would result from NF-kappa B-dependent transcriptional stimulation of the I kappa B alpha/MAD -3 gene.
Nuclear run-on analyses indicated that, instead, while several immediate-early cytokine genes, such as the interleukin 1 beta -LRB- IL-1 beta -RRB- gene, were transcriptionally activated during monocyte adhesion, the rate of I kappa B alpha/MAD -3 gene transcription remained constant.
Taken together, our data suggest that two interactive mechanisms regulate monocytic I kappa B alpha/MAD -3 mRNA levels.
We propose that adherent monocytes regulate nuclear processing -LRB- or decay -RRB- of I kappa B alpha/MAD -3 mRNA, thereby increasing mRNA levels without stimulating I kappa B alpha/MAD -3 gene transcription.
Moreover, since inhibition of protein synthesis leads to accumulation of I kappa B alpha/MAD -3 mRNA without stimulating I kappa B alpha/MAD -3 gene transcription, we suggest that low cytoplasmic levels of I kappa B alpha/MAD -3 mRNA are maintained by a translation-dependent degradation mechanism.
Adhesion molecules that tether circulating leukocytes to endothelial cells may also transduce or modulate outside-in signals for cellular activation, providing an initial regulatory point in the inflammatory response.
These results demonstrate that P-selectin, through its ligands on monocytes, may locally regulate cytokine secretion in inflamed tissues.
Aspirin appeared to prevent VCAM-1 transcription, since it dose-dependently inhibited induction of VCAM-1 mRNA by TNF.
CONCLUSIONS : Our data suggest that aspirin inhibits NF-kappa B mobilization, induction of VCAM-1 and E-selectin, and subsequent monocyte adhesion in endothelial cells stimulated by TNF, thereby providing an additional mechanism for therapeutic effects of aspirin.
This mechanism may be important in the activation of HIV expression from latently infected CD4 + T cells, especially in lymphoid organs where cell to cell contact is conducive to receptor-ligand interactions.
4. Danazol may release estrogen predominance via the reduction of transcription for ER gene, which leads to the reduction of ER mRNA and ER expressions in monocytes.
To test the hypothesis that nitric oxide -LRB- NO -RRB- limits endothelial activation, we treated cytokine-stimulated human saphenous vein endothelial cells with several NO donors and assessed their effects on the inducible expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 -LRB- VCAM-1 -RRB-.
Nuclear run-on assays, transfection studies using various VCAM-1 promoter reporter gene constructs, and electrophoretic mobility shift assays indicated that NO represses VCAM-1 gene transcription, in part, by inhibiting NF-kappa B..
We propose that NO 's ability to limit endothelial activation and inhibit monocyte adhesion may contribute to some of its antiatherogenic and antiinflammatory properties within the vessel wall.
A possible signaling role for the Syk tyrosine kinase.
These observations indicate that the Syk tyrosine kinase may be an important component of an integrin signaling pathway in monocytic cells, leading to activation of NF-kappa B and to increased levels of cytokine messages.
During the course of serious bacterial infections, lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- is believed to interact with macrophage receptors, resulting in the generation of inflammatory mediators and systemic symptoms including hemodynamic instability and shock.
Recently, investigators have hypothesized that CD14-mediated signaling is effected through a receptor-associated tyrosine kinase -LRB- TK -RRB-, suggesting a multicomponent receptor model of LPS signaling.
We sought to determine if this pathway were present in CHO/CD14 cells and to elucidate the relationship of NF-kappa B activation to the CD14 receptor system.
These results imply that TK activity is not obligatory for CD14-mediated signal transduction to occur in response to LPS.
An ability of the Epstein-Barr virus latent membrane protein LMP1 to enhance the survival of infected B cells through upregulation of the bcl-2 oncogene was first suggested by experiments involving gene transfection and the selection of stable LMP1 + clones -LRB- S.Henderson, M. Rowe, C.Gregory, F.Wang, E.Kieff, and A.Rickinson, Cell 65:1107 -1115, 1991 -RRB-.
However, it was not possible to ascertain whether Bcl-2 upregulation was a specific consequence of LMP1 expression or an artifact of the selection procedure whereby rare Bcl-2 + cells already present in the starting population might best be able to tolerate the potentially toxic effects of LMP1.
Our data also suggest that whilst NF-kappa B may be an essential component of LMP1 signal transduction, other cell-specific factors may be required to effect some functions of the viral protein.
To identify potential cellular homologues of cyclosporin A that might regulate calcium signalling, we have cloned human genes encoding cyclophilin B-binding-proteins using the yeast two-hybrid system.
CAML appears to be a new participant in the calcium-signal transduction pathway, implicating cyclophilin B in calcium signalling, even in the absence of cyclosporin.
These data demonstrate that VitD3 induces CD14 indirectly through some intermediary factor, and suggest a critical role for Sp1 in this process.
SCL protein levels in BFU-E-derived cells were highest in day 7 cells and decreased progressively from day 7 to day 14 of culture, suggesting an association of SCL with erythroid proliferation.
In contrast, SCL mRNA levels did not decrease significantly between day 7 and day 14 cells, suggesting that posttranscriptional mechanisms are largely responsible for the decrease in SCL protein observed.
The increase in SCL protein levels in early erythroid precursors stimulated with Steel factor suggests one mechanism through which Steel factor may enhance normal erythroid proliferation.
SCL mRNA levels assessed by Northern blot in day 7 cells did not increase significantly in response to Steel factor stimulation, suggesting that posttranscriptional mechanisms may also be important in the increase in SCL protein observed in response to Steel.
Fos expression may be a pivotal event in converting ligand-receptor interactions at the membrane into functional modulation of cell phenotype.
Since internal sites of oxidant production have been shown to play a key role in the cytokine-stimulated activation of NF-kappa B, and since tyrosine kinase and phosphatase activities are known to be altered by oxidants, these findings suggest that intracellular redox status controls NF-kappa B activation by regulating tyrosine phosphorylation event -LRB- s -RRB- within the common step of the NF-kappa B signal transduction pathway.
Cross-linking CD40 on B cells can lead to homotypic cell adhesion, IL-6 production, and, in combination with cytokines, to Ig isotype switching.
The complexes detected in electrophoretic mobility shift assays contain p50, p65 -LRB- RelA -RRB-, c-Rel, and most likely other components.
Our results define the NF-kappa B system as an intermediate event in CD40 signaling and suggest that the CD40 pathway can influence the expression of B cell-associated genes with NF-kappa B consensus sites.
They inhibit synthesis of almost all known cytokines and of several cell surface molecules required for immune function, but the mechanism underlying this activity has been unclear.
Because NF-kappa B activates many immunoregulatory genes in response to pro-inflammatory stimuli, the inhibition of its activity can be a major component of the anti-inflammatory activity of glucocorticoids.
The inverse relation between high density lipoprotein -LRB- HDL -RRB- and atherosclerotic events may in part be due to enzymes associated with HDL that destroy the biologically active lipids generated in LDL.
These findings implicate HMG-I in the HPFH phenotype ; we speculate that it may participate in the formation of multiprotein complexes that regulate globin gene expression.
MZF-1 is a C2H2 zinc finger gene encoding a putative transcriptional regulator of myeloid differentiation.
The cell type-specific regulation of the CD34 promoter by MZF-1 suggests the presence of tissue-specific regulators/adapters or differential MZF-1 modifications that determine MZF-1 transcriptional regulatory function.
Because it is not clear at which point in cell cycle the peripheral B lymphocytes are arrested, we characterized the expression of several cell cycle-associated genes in quiescent and stimulated cells.
Because these genes play a positive role in cell proliferation, we suggest that this regulatory switch contributes to controlling entry into the cell cycle.
Transient stimulation of quiescent B lymphocytes with either a cocktail of anti-CD40, anti-IgM, and IL4, or EBV results in the rapid expression of the same four genes, suggesting that, after infection, EBV exploits the normal program of B-lymphocyte cell cycle activation.
In all cell lines investigated, the NF-kappa B complexes induced following CD30 engagement were shown to contain p50 NF-kappa B1, p65 RelA, and possibly other transcription factors.
Hematopoietic tissues from these mice display elevated levels of both nuclear NF-kappa B and mRNAs of some, but not all, genes thought to be regulated by NF-kappa B..
Our results indicate that I kappa b beta, but not I kappa B alpha, is required for the signal-dependent activation of NF-kappa B in fibroblasts.
Oxidative stress, with reactive oxygen intermediate formation, may represent a common mechanism by which liver injury is induced by diverse etiologies.
It is tempting to speculate that enhanced NF-kappa B expression caused by free radical production/oxidative stress may modulate liver injury, perhaps through an effect on cytotoxic cytokine synthesis.
Lack of full activation of NF-AT could be correlated to a dramatically reduced capacity to induce calcium flux and could be complemented with a calcium ionophore.
These results indicate that endothelial activation requires continuous presence of LPS, and rBPI21 acts to reverse LPS-mediated endothelial activation by interrupting the on-going LPS signal.
Maximal increase in IL-2 transcription was recorded with CHO-DR/B7/LFA -3, suggesting a cooperative effect of B7 and LFA-3 at the transcriptional level.
These may partly account for the differential effects of B7 and LFA-3 costimulation on IL-2 expression.
This represents the first report of NFAT in endothelial cells and suggests mechanisms by which CsA could function as an antiinflammatory agent.
The cellular mechanism governing the diminished proliferative response of neonatal T lymphocytes to anti-CD2 may therefore be due to decreased NF kappa B induction, reduced IL-2 mRNA expression and deficient IL-2 production.
Although anti-CD28 MoAb costimulation enhances all of the above signals, NF kappa B and IL-2 levels remain lower than in adults, suggesting the need for further activation requirements in the neonate.
HIV-1 infection of myeloid cells can lead to the expression of surface receptors associated with cellular activation and/or differentiation that increase the responsiveness of these cells to cytokines secreted by neighboring cells as well as to bacteria or other pathogens.
Increased intracellular stores of latent NF-kappa B may also result in rapid inducibility of NF-kappa B-dependent cytokine gene expression.
Secretion of myeloid cell-derived cytokines may both increase virus production and contribute to AIDS-associated disorders.
We report here that 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3-mediated repression in Jurkat cells is cycloheximide resistant, suggesting that it is a direct transcriptional repressive effect on IL-2 expression by the vitamin D3 receptor -LRB- VDR -RRB-.
These results indicate that DNA binding by VDR is necessary but not sufficient to mediate IL-2 repression.
Order of addition and off-rate experiments indicate that the VDR-retinoid X receptor heterodimer blocks NFATp/AP -1 complex formation and then stably associates with the NF-AT-1 element.
This direct inhibition by a nuclear hormone receptor of transcriptional activators of the IL-2 gene may provide a mechanistic explanation of how vitamin derivatives can act as potent immunosuppressive agents.
To determine if TPCK and TLCK inhibited LPS induction of TF expression, freshly isolated human monocytes and monocytic THP-1 cells were pretreated with these inhibitors for 30 min before LPS stimulation.
Taken together, these data indicated that inhibiting nuclear translocation of c-Rel/p65 heterodimers prevented LPS induction of TF gene transcription in monocytic cells.
Those results indicate that, in resting T cells, PKC activation has only a triggering role, whereas the endogenously secreted TNF alpha plays an essential role in the quantitative control of the expression of IL-2R alpha chain or NF.kappa B activation.
These observations suggest that v-abl may be inhibiting the differentiation of B cells by blocking these two crucial elements in the maturation pathway.
A family of serine proteases expressed exclusively in myelo-monocytic cells specifically processes the nuclear factor-kappa B subunit p65 in vitro and may impair human immunodeficiency virus replication in these cells.
We examined these clones for differences in nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappa B activity which might account for the observed phenomenon.
It is possible that particular serine proteases may have inhibiting effects on the replication of HIV-1 in myelo-monocytic cells.
Surprisingly, even p65, but not c-rel, was phosphorylated after induction in vivo, suggesting that TNF-alpha selectively activates only specific NF-kappa B heteromers and that modifications regulate not only I kappa B molecules but also NF-kappa B molecules.
Thus, phosphorylation appears to be a general mechanism for activation of NF-kappa B in vivo.
Recent data suggest that the poor induction of a T-cell response to human renal cell carcinoma -LRB- RCC -RRB- may be related to alterations in signal transduction pathways.
The altered kappa B-binding activity in T cells from RCC patients may impair their capacity to respond normally to various stimuli.
The pleiotropic effects of RA are thought to be mediated through specific nuclear RA receptors -LRB- RARs -RRB-.
In hematopoietic system, RA and RARs, predominantly RAR alpha may play key roles for the proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic progenitors.
However, it is currently unknown how RA and RARs are involved in regulating normal hematopoietic differentiation.
Most cells infected with hRAR alpha exhibited promyelocytic morphology and were thought to be blocked at the promyelocytic stage in their myeloid differentiation.
These observations suggest that an overexpression of RAR alpha alone is effective to suppress myeloid cell differentiation and RAR alpha plays a crucial role in the terminal differentiation of myeloid precursors.
The system described here may serve as a model for studying the the essential genes for differentiation of normal bone marrow cells.
Most of these cells have rearranged their heavy-chain locus but not their light chain genes, suggesting that an active v-abl protein interferes with this differentiation step.
Together these data demonstrate that the v-abl protein specifically interferes with light-chain gene rearrangement by suppressing at least two pathways essential for this stage of B-cell differentiation and suggest that tyrosine phosphorylation is important in regulating RAG gene expression.
Trans-activation of the TP1 promoter and of the BamHI C promoter has already been investigated in detail and appears to be mediated via protein-protein interactions and not by direct binding of EBNA-2 type A -LRB- of EBV type 1 -RRB- to the DNA.
To determine whether EBNA-2 also trans-activates the LMP promoter by protein-protein interactions, we performed a series of gel retardation assays and competition experiments with LMP promoter fragments of different sizes.
We deduce from these results that EBNA-2-positive cells might indeed contain specific complexes bound to the LMP promoter which are, however, too labile to be detected in a standard gel retardation assay.
T cell hybridomas respond to activation signals by undergoing apoptotic cell death, and this is likely to represent comparable events related to tolerance induction in immature and mature T cells in vivo.
These results imply that Myc promotes activation-induced apoptosis by obligatory heterodimerization with Max, and therefore, by regulating gene transcription.
Competition and supershift experiments indicate that Mono B contains a member of the polyomavirus enhancer-binding protein 2/core-binding factor -LRB- PEBP2/CBF -RRB- family, which includes the AML1 gene product, while Mono A is a distinct complex preferentially expressed in monocytic cells.
These results indicate that the monocyte/B-cell-specific transcription factor PU .1 and the Mono A and Mono B protein complexes act in concert to regulate monocyte-specific transcription of the CSF-1 receptor.
Mutagenesis studies, and the use of a reporter construct containing an enhancerless promoter, indicate that these transcriptional effects are due principally to the 22-bp sequence duplication and the NF kappa B site contained within it.
These studies are consistent with the hypothesis that LTR mutations assist SIVsmmPBj14 in responding efficiently to cellular stimulation and allow it to replicate to high titers during the acute phase of viral infection.
As the protein tyrosine kinase activities p56lck and p59fyn are activated in intact cells by hydrogen peroxide, they are likely targets for GSSG action.
As signal transduction is facilitated by prooxidant conditions, we propose that the well-known immunological consequences of GSH depletion ultimately may be results of the accompanying GSSG deficiency.
As HIV-infected patients and SIV-infected rhesus macaques have, on the average, significantly decreased plasma cyst -LRB- e -RRB- ine and intracellular GSH levels, we also hypothesize that AIDS may be the consequence of a GSSG deficiency as well.
Methylation studies indicated that the tal-15' GC-rich region behaves like a CpG island, hypomethylated in normal cells, and methylated de novo on transcriptionally inactive alleles in established cell lines.
HS II was weak in hematopoietic cell lines, absent in Hela, and greatly enhanced in Jurkat, suggesting that this region might be implicated in the cis-activation of tal-1 promoter 1b in this cell line.
These results suggest that distinct regulatory elements are associated with the use of the different tal-1 promoters.
In the intron, further transcription factor binding sites, including a NF-kappa B element, were identified leading to the suggestion that the expression of the gene encoding for the nuclear autoantigen La/SS-B alters in dependence on disease conditions.
In contrast, the addition of GM-CSF to the M-TAT/EPO cell culture decreased the amount of hemoglobin, even in the presence of EPO, indicating that the EPO signal for erythroid differentiation is suppressed by GM-CSF.
These results support the hypothesis that EPO actively influences the programming of gene expression required for erythroid progenitor cell differentiation.
Not only do these positional effects of Nef reconcile diverse phenotypes of Nef and suggest a role for its N-terminal myristylation, but they also explain effects of Nef in HIV infection and progression to AIDS.
The mechanisms by which LMP-1 upregulates these proteins is unknown, but it is plausible that LMP-1 modifies signal transduction pathways that result in the activation of one or more transcription factors that ultimately regulate transcription of oncogenic genes.
The mechanism -LRB- s -RRB- regulating this activation remains unknown.
Our data indicate that increased NF-kappa B DNA binding and functional activity are present in B-lymphoid cells stably or transiently expressing LMP-1.
These results indicate that LMP-1 activates NF-kappa B in B-cell lines by targeting I kappa B alpha.
Endogenous or exogenously administered RA may have a significant role in HIV regulation.
Together, these data suggest the TR2RE-SV40 may represent the first identified natural DNA response element for the TR2 orphan receptor that may function as a repressor for the SV40 gene expression.
Glucocorticoids have an inhibitory effect on inflammatory and immune responses, and this may be through the modulation of transcription factor binding to DNA.
This suggests that in these cells GR within the nucleus interacts with cytokine-stimulated transcription factors by the process of cross coupling.
This may be an important molecular site of steroid action.
The large number of individual genes represented among the 63 clones and their apparent non-cell-type-specific expression suggest that the majority of the Kruppel-related zinc finger genes are likely to be expressed in most human tissues.
In contrast, some of the genes displayed a restricted expression pattern, indicating that they represent potential regulators of monocyte differentiation or proliferation.
However, the role of CaM-K II remains unknown.
These results suggest that CaM-K II may exert negative influences on cytokine gene transcription in human T cells, and provide preliminary evidence for negative cross-talk with the calcineurin - and PKC - dependent signaling systems.
These results suggest that phosphorylation at one or both of these residues is critical for activation of NF-kappa B..
Appraisal of potential therapeutic index of antioxidants on the basis of their in vitro effects on HIV replication in monocytes and interleukin 2-induced lymphocyte proliferation.
Antioxidant molecules have been suggested to be of therapeutic value in the treatment of HIV-infected patients.
This may be the first limitation to potential antiviral effects of antioxidant therapies.
The gp160-mediated activation of NF-kappa B in CD4 positive T cells may be involved in biological effects, e.g., enhanced HIV replication, hypergammaglobulinemia, increased cytokine secretion, hypercellularity in bone marrow and apoptosis.
These results suggest that Nef downmodulates LTR activation without significantly inhibiting the capacity of T cells to respond to immunological activations.
The NM23 gene has been proposed as a metastasis-suppressor gene, and its use has been suggested as prognostic factor.
Several criteria indicated that the defect in this cell line influences the activity of an isotype-specific transcription factor.
Indeed, transient transfection of HLA-DRA and DQB reporter constructs indicated that the affected factor operates via cis-elements located between -141 base pairs and the transcription initiation site.
These studies suggest that the divergent X2-box of the class II major histocompatibility complex promoters plays an important role in influencing differential expression of the human class II isotypes.
To identify ets-related transcriptional regulators expressed in pre-B lymphocytes that may interact with either the pi or the microB site, we have used a PCR approach with degenerate oligonucleotides encoding conserved sequences in all members of the ets family.
Removal of the carboxy terminus enables ERP to interact with a variety of ets-binding sites including the E74 site, the IgH enhancer pi site, and the lck promoter ets site, suggesting a carboxy-terminal negative regulatory domain.
These data suggest that ERP might play a role in B-cell development and in IgH gene regulation.
The strong induction of HIV expression by NaB or HMBA in J delta K cells clearly demonstrates the existence of NF-kappa B-independent mechanisms of HIV activation in chronically infected cells.
J delta K cells may provide a useful model for characterizing NF-kappa B-independent transcriptional activation of the HIV LTR.
Molecular mechanisms leading to restricted HIV-1 replication may differ between certain cell types.
A predominance of p50 NF-kappa B moieties and possibly p50 homodimers or closely related species, rather than the p50-p56 heterodimer of NF-kappa B that is the predominant NF-kappa B species in most T lymphocytic and monocytic cells, is demonstrated in the nuclei of U1 cells.
As such, these data suggest that different proximal mechanisms may lead to restricted HIV-1 replication in various cell types.
These results indicate that the regulation of NF-kappa B activation during T cell activation by TcR/CD3 signals is biphasic : TcR/CD3 triggers its immediate translocation, which is transient if no TNF-alpha is present.
The first early-induced peak was transient and likely corresponds to the well documented typical junB mRNA, stimulated in response to numerous growth factors, including IL-6.
Altogether these data indicate that, in 7TD1 cells, IL-6 controls junB transcription in a biphasic fashion by means of two separate transduction pathways.
In contrast, this receptor mutant showed low levels of xenobiotic response element-binding activity, indicating that the PAS domain may be important for DNA-binding affinity and/or specificity of the receptor.
It was not possible to reconstitute dioxin receptor function with proteins expressed in wheat germ lysate.
Whereas ligand-binding activity correlated with association with hsp90, bHLH-hsp90 interaction appeared to be important for DNA-binding activity but not for dimerization of the receptor.
Several distinct roles for hsp90 in modulating dioxin receptor function are therefore likely : correct folding of the ligand-binding domain, interference with Arnt heterodimerization, and folding of a DNA-binding conformation of the bHLH domain.
The element is not activated upon infection of established EBV-negative B-cell lines, indicating that EBV fails to drive these cells to a fully lymphoblastoid phenotype.
The EBV-encoded latent membrane protein 1 is capable of transactivating the isolated CD48 NF-kappa B site but not the intact element, suggesting that the latent membrane protein 1-driven activation of NF-kappa B/Rel must interact with other regulatory pathways to control expression of cellular genes as EBV drives resting B cells into the cell cycle.
These findings suggest a molecular mechanism of positive regulation of PAFR gene expression by PAF through NF-kappa B, possibly by a phosphorylation reaction involving protein kinase C by PAF.
Regulation of cell-type-specific interleukin-2 receptor alpha-chain gene expression : potential role of physical interactions between Elf-1, HMG-I -LRB- Y -RRB-, and NF-kappa B family proteins.
Elf-1 physically associated with HMG-I and with NF-kappa B p50 and c-Rel in vitro, suggesting that protein-protein interactions might functionally coordinate the actions of the upstream and downstream positive regulatory elements.
The results indicated that both genes are expressed in T cells throughout their development, supporting the notion that PEBP2 is a T-cell-specific transcription factor.
Induction of apoptosis in lymphocytes, which may account for the therapeutic effects of glucocorticoids in various diseases including leukemia, depends on the glucocorticoid receptor.
A prevailing hypothesis postulates induction of so-called ` lysis genes' by the activated receptor.
Therefore, the primary effect of the receptor in glucocorticoid-mediated apoptosis correlates with transcriptional repression rather than activation and could be mediated by interference with other transcription factors required for cell survival.
Recent biochemical and genetic studies indicate that in addition to the octamer-binding proteins Oct-1 and Oct-2, other B cell components are required for lymphoid-restricted, octamer site-mediated immunoglobulin gene promoter activity.
Aims of the study were to -LRB- 1 -RRB- assess the potential role of the expression of these genes in the maintenance and expansion of the neoplastic clones and -LRB- 2 -RRB- search for constitutional losses or rearrangements of one allele followed by a deletion of the second allele of the same genes in the leukemic cells.
An autocrine mechanism of growth could be hypothesized only for the 2 patients whose cells expressed both the M-CSF and FMS genes.
Thus, deregulation of genes encoding for certain hemopoietic growth factors or receptors does not seem to represent a major mechanism of MDS progression.
Whether virus-induced NF-kappa B activation is a mechanism that favors continuous viral replication in macrophages remains unknown.
Recent evidence suggests a role for oxidant stress in the signalling pathway of various cell types by virtue of its ability to induce DNA binding of various transcription factors, including nuclear factor kappa B and AP-1.
Northern blot analysis showed that neither of these agents reduced LPS-stimulated TF mRNA accumulation, thereby suggesting a posttranscriptional mechanism for the effect.
When considered together, these data suggest that antioxidants exert their effects by impairing translation and/or by causing degradation of newly translated protein.
The effect of antioxidants on tumor necrosis factor appeared to be species specific, with no effect on LPS-induced tumor necrosis factor in murine cells, but with inhibition in human monocytes.
The posttranscriptional effect of antioxidants on TF expression data suggests a novel mechanism whereby these agents might modulate monocyte/macrophage activation.
Increased expression of the c-jun protooncogene and an increase in AP-1 binding activity in PKC-zeta cells provides a potential mechanism for explaining the altered differentiation status of this cell.
These observations suggest that de novo EBV infection of thymocytes differs from infection of B cells.
The main difference is that with thymocytes, no evidence could be found that the virus ever circularizes.
Our results suggest that SP1 phosphorylation induced by OKA, a selective inhibitor of the serine-threonine phosphatase PP2A, facilitates the formation of a transcription complex involving general transcription factors, HIV Tat, and Sp1 proteins.
It has been reported that HIV-1 protease may cleave the NF-kappa B precursor to its active form in vitro.
The limited activation of NF-kappa B by HIV protease appears unlikely to have a significant effect on virus expression or T cell function.
However, unlike another tumor suppressor protein, p53, Rb did not have any significant effect on basal levels of transcription, suggesting that Rb specifically interacts with IE2 rather than other cellular factors involved in the general transcription machinery.
Our results suggest that Rb may regulate the life cycle of HCMV, which is endemic in the human population.
Furthermore, these data may provide new insights into the slow rate of HCMV DNA replication in cells and the possible involvement of HCMV in tumorigenesis.
Two of these are potential binding sites for STAT proteins.
Taken together, these results suggest that inhibition of NF kappa B activation may be an important mechanism for IL-10 suppression of cytokine gene transcription in human monocytes.
These data indicate that IL-10 and IL-4 inhibit cytokine production by different mechanisms.
This protein, previously identified by its binding to the Ig kappa 3' enhancer and the Ig heavy chain mu E1 site, thus also appears to be quite important in the regulation of MHC class II gene expression.
Because inhibition of DNA-binding activity is associated with increasing intracellular glutathione disulfide levels and GSSG can be shown to inhibit the DNA-binding activity directly in cell-free systems, our studies suggest that GSSG is a physiologically relevant inhibitor in intact cells also.
NF kappa B controls many immunologically important genes, so our studies suggest that the immune system may be sensitive not only against a cysteine and glutathione deficiency but also against an excess of cysteine.
These results indicated that expression of AhR mRNA was significantly induced during monocytic differentiation and that the differentiated cells were responsive to xenobiotics.
Our results suggest that AhR may play an important role in the function of monocytes and also in the eventual activation of environmental carcinogens.
Secreted from activated T cells and macrophages, bone marrow-derived MIP-1 alpha/GOS19 inhibits primitive hematopoietic stem cells and appears to be involved in the homeostatic control of stem cell proliferation.
We propose that the MNP protein -LRB- s -RRB- binding at the MNP site constitutes a novel transcription factor -LRB- s -RRB- expressed in hematopoietic cells.
Taken together, these findings suggest that PWM is able to initiate an intracytoplasmic signalling cascade and EGR-1 induction in normal human B cells.
These two abnormalities at the NF-AT site provide a potential mechanism to account for the defect in IL-2 production from Ipr CD4-8 - T cells.
This region is termed the CK-1 or CD28RE and appears to bind specific members of the NF-kappa B family of transcription factors.
This observation, together with the fact that both GM-CSF and IL-2 respond to TCR signals via NFAT, implies a high degree of conservation in the regulation of cytokine gene expression in T cells.
Since CIITA overexpression in normal cells did not increase class II expression, we propose that initiation of CIITA expression serves as the on-off switch, while availability of downstream interactor -LRB- s -RRB- limits transcription.
A marked activation of gamma-promoter activity was also observed with this mutation, suggesting the presence of a repressor.
The repressor activity of the 5' - UTR was localized to tandem GATA-like sites, which appear to bind a complex of two proteins, one of which is the erythroid transcription factor GATA-1.
These results indicate that the 5' - UTR of the gamma-gene contains sequences that may be important for its transcriptional and developmental regulation.
Therefore, we sought to determine whether MEK1 and ERK activities also stimulate IL-2 gene transcription.
The human B29 gene lacks either a TATA or a CAAT box and transcription is initiated at multiple sites.
A newly identified motif called the B29 conserved sequence -LRB- BCS -RRB-, found upstream of both human and murine B29 promoters, appears to stimulate B29 transcription through a novel mechanism.
These findings indicate that B29 gene expression is controlled by the complex interplay of positive and negative regulatory elements.
These results indicate that Fc gamma R can mediate a TNF-alpha-dependent induction of HIV-1 gene transcription and suggest that immune complexes may contribute to the pathophysiology of HIV-1 infection by augmenting viral replication in monocytes.
Furthermore, the sharply reduced NF-AT activity produced by co-transfecting BKO could be `` rescued '' by overexpression of transfected B subunit, suggesting that depletion of this subunit was responsible for the inhibition.
These data suggest the potential utility of agents that disrupt calcineurin-mediated signal transduction pathways by blocking formation of the catalytically active dimer of calcineurin A and B subunits.
Results from site-directed mutations and electrophoretic mobility shift assays strongly suggest that this sequence mediates the ionomycin-induced activation of the TCRG enhancer.
These alterations of transcription factors are likely to be responsible for repression of IL-2 in anergic T cells.
Therefore, inhibition of NF-kappa B activation may be an effective strategy for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome therapy.
Because surfactant downregulated inflammatory cytokine production similarly in both normal human alveolar macrophages and the THP-1 cell line, we used this cell line to investigate whether surfactant affected transcriptional mechanisms.
These results are the first to suggest that surfactant 's suppressive effects on inflammatory cytokine production may involve transcriptional regulation through inhibition of NF-kappa B activation.
These data suggest a general role for Tax induction of IL-1alpha gene transcription by the NF-kappaB pathway.
Expression of IL-1alpha by HTLV-I productively infected cells may be important in the hypercalcemia, osteolytic bone lesions, neutrophilia, elevation of C-reactive protein, and fever frequently seen in patients with HTLV-I-induced adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma.
To investigate the regulation of IL-13 gene expression by T cells, we isolated and sequenced the human IL-13 gene, analyzed its 5' - flanking region for potential transcriptional activation elements, and examined its expression in nontransformed T-lineage cell populations.
Similar to IL-4, IL-13 mRNA expression was highest in T-cell populations enriched for cells that had previously been primed in vivo or in vitro, indicating that priming increases the expression of the IL-13 and IL-4 genes in a coordinate manner.
This may explain the strong cyto-differentiating potential of AM580 in PML-RAR-containing leukemic cells.
Immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated the presence of intensely labelled structures likely to represent the GATA-1 foci seen by immunofluorescence.
This pattern of distribution is, thus far, unique to the GATA transcription factors and suggests a protein-protein interaction with other components of the nuclear bodies via the GATA zinc finger domain.
The work reported here resolves, at the level of gene regulation, the controversy as to whether or not human monocytes/macrophages can produce nitric oxide -LRB- NO -RRB- when stimulated with lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB-, with or without co-stimulation by interferon-gamma -LRB- IFN-gamma -RRB-.
The importance of resolution of this controversy is that future research in this area should be directed toward the understanding of alternative mechanisms that can result in the successful production of NO.
Efficient rescue of the defect requires an intact GATA element in the distal promoter, suggesting autoregulatory control of GATA-1 transcription.
To examine whether GATA-1 expression involves additional regulatory factors or is maintained entirely by an autoregulatory loop, we have used a transient heterokaryon system to test the ability of erythroid factors to activate the GATA-1 gene in nonerythroid nuclei.
Nuclei from GATA-1 - mutant embryonic stem cells can still be reprogrammed to express their globin genes in erythroid heterokaryons, indicating that de novo induction of GATA-1 is not required for globin gene activation following cell fusion.
These findings suggest that although human B lymphocytes can express VDR mRNA and protein, they exhibit a functional block for vitamin D-dependent gene regulation.
Recent findings suggest an involvement of reactive oxygen species in the pathway of TPA and protein kinase C leading to expression of c-fos and c-jun mRNA.
These studies support the idea that superoxide anion radical plays a role in the expression of c-fos mRNA.
The absence in I kappa B gamma-1 and I kappa B gamma-2 of a protein kinase A site whose phosphorylation modulates p70I kappa B gamma inhibitory activity suggests that alternative RNA splicing may be used to generate I kappa B gamma isoforms that respond differently to intracellular signals.
Recent reports demonstrated that ionizing radiation in the dose range of 2-50 Gy results in expression of NF-kappa B in human KG-1 myeloid leukemia cells and human B-lymphocyte precursor cells ; the precise mechanism involved and the significance are not yet known.
We conclude that although neither of the two 5' - most Ets sites alone binds nuclear protein, they appear to act as modulators which control the pattern of Ets proteins that bind the alpha 4 gene promoter.
This arrangement of Ets sites, coupled with the tissue - and developmental-specific expression of Ets members, likely play a key role in defining the pattern of alpha 4 integrin.
Base-pair substitutions in the TF site indicated that the presence of a cytosine at position 1 precluded binding of NF-kappa B..
Functional studies indicated that the TF site conferred LPS inducibility on a heterologous promoter and was transactivated by c-Rel or p65.
Dysregulation of cytokines secreted by T cells may play an important role in the pathogenesis of AIDS.
Analysis of mRNA suggested that Tat exerts its effect on IL-2 primarily at the transcriptional level.
The observed increase in IL-2 levels might facilitate virus spread from or to T cells.
Furthermore, it might contribute to the hypergammaglobulinemia or, together with other cytokines found to be dysregulated, the T-helper cell dysfunctions observed in AIDS patients.
The molecular mechanisms regulating human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- persistence in a major cell reservoir such as the macrophage remain unknown.
Although little information as to what signal transduction pathways mediate NF-kappa B activation in monocytes-macrophages is available, our previous work indicated that classical protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- isoenzymes were not involved in the HIV-mediated NF-kappa B activation.
Altogether, these results suggest that atypical PKC isoenzymes, including PKC-zeta, participate in the signal transduction pathways by which HIV infection results in the activation of NF-kappa B in human monocytic cells and macrophages.
We present evidence that IBR and IBF are most likely identical proteins, differing in their degree of glycosylation.
The evolutionarily conserved N-terminal half of IBR/F harbors the DNA-binding/dimerization domain -LRB- outer limits, 127 to 283 -RRB-, one or several casein kinase II sites -LRB- 37 to 67 -RRB-, and a bipartite nuclear localization signal -LRB- 89 to 106 -RRB- which appears to be necessary for nuclear targeting.
A survey of genes potentially regulated by this family of factors primarily revealed genes involved in growth-related metabolism.
Thus, competition between two general transcriptional activators, RelA and NF-ATp, mediates the inhibitory effect of protein kinase C stimulation on IL4 expression and may contribute to differential gene expression in TH cells.
Atopy, which predisposes individuals to develop asthma, severe systemic anaphylaxis, and atopic dermatitis, is usually associated with dramatically elevated total serum IgE levels and is thought to be controlled by a major susceptibility gene and multiple minor susceptibility genes.
In one model, polymorphisms within IL-4 regulatory elements might result in overexpression of the gene, amplifying Th2 cell differentiation and class switching to IgE.
A nucleotide substitution within a recently described OAP40 element located just upstream of an NF-AT site -LRB- P sequence -RRB- appears to be largely responsible for the increased promotor strength of this particular allelic form of the IL-4 promoter.
The identification of allelic nucleotides, which results in overexpression of the IL-4 gene, provides specific targets for a comprehensive screening of atopic and nonatopic individuals and may provide a clue for genetic predisposition for atopy.
Neutralizing mAbs to IL-10 and TNF-alpha indicated that both cytokines were essential for the induction and were required to generate a synergistic increase in virus expression.
The effects of the two cytokines were distinguishable functionally since pretreatment with TNF-alpha attenuated the cytokine cooperativity, while pretreatment with IL-10 potentiated their cooperativity, suggesting that IL-10 and TNF-alpha play different roles in the activation of virus.
Northern blot analysis as well as Ab blocking and cytokine secretion studies indicated that the induction of either endogenous TNF-alpha or IL-10 was not involved in the cooperativity, nor was an up-regulation of TNF-alpha receptors.
In combination with TNF-alpha, IL-10 stimulated activating protein-1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB- and nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappa B binding activities and cooperated to increase HIV-1 steady-state mRNA levels and enhance long terminal repeat-directed transcription through activation of the NF-kappa B binding sites, suggesting the IL-10 effect occurs at least in part at the transcriptional level.
These results indicate that IL-10, in addition to down-regulating the cellular immune response to HIV-1, may also play a role in TNF-alpha-mediated activation of HIV-1 replication in the monocyte/macrophage lineage.
We propose that NFKB2 synthesis and processing allows continuous nuclear expression of an otherwise cytoplasmic protein and, in conjunction with overexpression of c-Rel, NFKB2 alters the NF-kappa B signalling pathway and contributes to leukemic transformation of T cells by HTLV-I.
GATA3, a member of the GATA family that is abundantly expressed in the T-lymphocyte lineage, is thought to participate in T-cell receptor gene activation through binding to enhancers.
These results indicate that the IL-5 gene is positively regulated by cAMP in a manner opposite to that for the IL-2 gene.
We attempted to determine whether NF -LRB- P -RRB-, a nuclear factor specific for the P sequence, is related to NF-kappa B and nuclear factor for activated T cell -LRB- NF-AT -RRB-.
These results indicate that a component or components of NF-AT have the potential to reconstitute NF -LRB- P -RRB-, whereas NF-kappa B alone does not account for NF -LRB- P -RRB- in Jurkat crude extract.
Taken together, these results suggest that NF-AT-like factors are involved in the regulation of IL-4 and IL-5 genes.
The involvement of a CD28 response element in the induction of IL-8 expression in activated T cells may provide new insights into the pathogenesis and persistence of immune disorders characterized by increased levels of IL-8, such as psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis.
We examined whether NF -LRB- P -RRB-, a nuclear factor specific for the P sequence, is related to NF-kappa B and NF-AT.
These results indicate that the component -LRB- s -RRB- of NF-AT has the potential to reconstitute NF -LRB- P -RRB- whereas NF-kappa B alone can not account for NF -LRB- P -RRB- in crude extracts.
We examined whether signal transducing components in T cells can activate transcription of the GM-CSF gene.
These results suggest that cooperation among NF-kappa B -, AP-1 - and NF-AT-binding sequences is required for induction of the GM-CSF gene through PKC - and Ca2 + - signaling pathways downstream of T cell activation.
In this regard, the cytokine interleukin 6 -LRB- IL-6 -RRB- may play a role in the clinical manifestations and pathological events of tuberculosis infection.
Co-infection of T cells by HIV-1 and HHV-6 can lead to both activation of the HIV-1 promoter and acceleration of the cytopathic effects.
Sequence analyses of pCD41 indicate that there are two potential open reading frames -LRB- ORFs -RRB-, A and B, which are homologous to the ORFs found in the genomic clone pGD41.
To define the mechanism of action of the Nef protein, the signal transduction pathways which may be affected in T cells by constitutive expression of the nef gene were examined.
Stimulation of T cells with tumor necrosis factor, interleukin-1, or lipopolysaccharide resulted in the recruitment of transcriptional factors to a similar level whether or not the cells expressed the nef gene.
These results identify a transcriptional regulatory element associated with a nuclease-hypersensitive site in the pol gene of HIV-1 and suggest that its activity may be controlled by a complex interplay of cis-regulatory elements.
These results suggest that tyrosine phosphorylation of I kappa B alpha during hypoxia is an important proximal step which precedes its dissociation and degradation from NF-kappa B..
Again, in vitro supershift studies indicate that the presence of p50, p52, p65, and cRel correlates with positive function whereas the presence of only p50 and p52 correlates with negative function.
This differential binding of specific NF-kappa B/Rel subunits is likely to mediate the disparate functions of these two NF-kappa B/Rel binding sites.
Taken together, these data suggest that hypoxia constitutes a stimulus for leukocyte chemotaxis and tissue leukostasis.
These results suggest that targeting IFN synthesis to HIV-1-infected cells is an attainable goal and that autocrine IFN synthesis results in a long-lasting and permanent suppression of HIV-1 replication.
These results suggest that the activation of NF-kappa B plays an important role in the apoptotic process of human hematopoietic cells.
This protein appears to require both the S and J elements, which are separated by 10 bp for optimal binding.
Although the exact mechanism by which apoptosis occurs in lymphocytes is unknown many biochemical and molecular changes have been shown to occur in these cells in response to glucocorticoids.
We focused our studies on the role of Pit-1 and of PR as potential transcriptional regulators, since the POU domain protein Pit-1 is essential in the control of pituitary PRL expression, and progesterone induces decidual transformation of the endometrial stroma, a differentiation process during which the decidual PRL gene is activated.
Activation of the dPRL promoter construct in these undifferentiated cells could however be induced by the addition of cAMP, in the absence of progesterone, suggesting that a signal transduced through the cAMP signaling pathway is a primary inducer of decidual PRL gene expression.
In addition to activation of phospholipase C gamma 1, ligation of this receptor also seems to activate a calcium-independent, CD28-specific pathway.
Furthermore, CD28-dependent elevation of c-jun mRNA does not appear to be mediated at the level of mRNA stability.
A mechanism is suggested whereby expression of c-jun and junB, in the absence of members of the fos family, can prevent inappropriate activation of T cells caused by ligation of CD28 in the absence of a specific antigenic stimulus.
The constitutive NF-kappa B appears to be functionally active, since a low level of tumour necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- transcript is detectable in monocytes, and this level can be increased by blocking transcript degradation using cycloheximide.
Several mammalian responses to UV irradiation, including the activation of NF-kappa B, are believed to involve tyrosine phosphorylation.
These results suggest that UV-induced signal transduction is mediated via cell surface receptors that normally respond to biological stimulation, whereas H2O2 is able to partially bypass this requirement.
Our results suggest that the target of PGE2 action is a component in the signal transduction pathway leading to the activation of protein kinase C..
It seems therefore that PGE2, by elevating cAMP levels, interferes with the activation pathway for NF-kappa B but not for NF-AT, AP-1 or CLE0 binding protein.
These findings establish a spectrum of binding site-specific transcriptional properties for E2A-HLF which may preferentially activate expression of select subordinate genes as a homodimer and potentially antagonize expression of others through heteromeric interactions.
These results suggest that the two transcription factors are independently regulated and may perform different functions during T-cell activation.
The results of this study suggest that the NFAT -LRB- -276 to -261 -RRB-, the distal octamer -LRB- -256 to -248 -RRB- and the proximal octamer -LRB- -75 to -66 -RRB- sites not only act as enhancers of IL-2 gene transcription in the presence of cellular stimulation, but also have a silencing effect on IL-2 gene expression in resting cells.
These data suggest that the regulation of IL-2 gene expression is a complex process and multiple cis-acting regulatory sites interact to exert different effects in T cells representative of alternative stages of differentiation.
Our results suggest that superantigens and other MHC class II ligands may activate HIV-1 gene expression in monocytes/macrophages.
Hence, these cytokines do not simply enhance monocyte differentiation, but have complex and slightly divergent effects that impact on HIV replication probably through cell signaling pathways and nuclear factor-kappaB translocation.
Using immunological cross-linking to mimic receptor engagement by natural ligands, we now show that CD15 -LRB- Lewis X -RRB-, a monocyte counter-receptor for endothelial selectins may participate in this response.
In addition to its well-recognized adhesive role, CD15 may function as an important signaling molecule capable of initiating proinflammatory events in monocytes that come into contact with activated endothelium.
This suppressive effect was also seen in IL-2-driven cell growth of CD8-positive lymphocytes purified from 7-day PHA-blasts, indicating that CD4 molecules were not required for the suppression.
Thus, the binding of V3 loop of gp120 to the cell surface molecule -LRB- s -RRB- appears to affect intracellular IL-2 signaling, which leads to the suppression of IL-2-induced T cell growth.
The nuclear factor kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- is thought to be crucially involved in the gene activation of several cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNF -RRB-.
Our results lend further support to the hypothesis that inflammatory and immune responses of monocytes/macrophages may be modulated at the molecular level by signals originating from tissue structural cells such as fibroblasts.
In addition, inhibition of mRNA synthesis with actinomycin D indicated that DOX induced an increased stability of PBGD and GATA-1 mRNAs, whereas ACLA did not affect the half-lives of these mRNAs.
Because the increase in erythroid mRNA steady-state level in anthracycline-treated cells was inhibited by cycloheximide, this suggests that transcriptional activation in ACLA-treated cells and mRNA stabilization in DOX-treated cells were dependent on de novo protein synthesis.
These two anthracyclines, although closely related in their structures, appeared to act as differentiation inducers by distinct mechanisms.
These data suggest that in activated normal T cells, CD28-derived signals can stimulate proliferation at least in part via NF-kappaB and AP-1 generation, and that this response uses both acidic sphingomyelinase and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-linked pathways.
We have demonstrated that the level of CRE binding protein -LRB- CREB -RRB- was the same in all cell lines and that the putative AR-CRE forms specific and compatible protein interactions with CREB.
This may be an important primary mechanism of androgen insensitivity in prostate cancer.
To determine whether CIF blocks at the level of IL2 transcription, we introduced reporter plasmids into the human T leukemia cell line Jurkat by transient transfection.
Furthermore, similar levels of NF kappa B were found in the cytosols of unactivated T cells from both young and elderly donors suggesting that precursor levels of NF kappa B remain unaltered during aging.
These results suggest that an age-associated decline in the induction of NF kappa B in activated T cells from elderly individuals may be attributable to altered regulation of the inhibitor, I kappa B, and may play an important role in immune dysregulation accompanying aging.
HTLV-I encodes a potent transactivator protein termed Tax that appears to play an important role in the process of T-cell immortalization.
Even though the mechanisms by which Tax induces transformation are still unknown, it seems likely that the ability of Tax to alter the expression of many cellular genes plays an important part in this process.
The mechanisms by which Tax activates NF-kappa B remain unclear, and findings presented in the literature are often controversial.
This raises the intriguing possibility that physical association of the HsN3 proteasome subunit with HTLV-I Tax coupled with the independent interaction of Tax with either p100 or p65-I kappa B alpha targets these cytoplasmic NF-kappa B/Rel complexes to the proteasome for processing.
Northern blotting experiments indicated that regulation predominantly occurred at the mRNA level.
These data suggest that selenium supplementation may be used to modulate the expression of NF-kappa B target genes and HIV-1.
Inhibition studies indicate that specific tyrosine phosphorylation following PTK activation is involved in the mobilization of the transcription factor, nuclear factor kappa B, and VCAM-1 mRNA expression.
This may have implications for pathophysiological conditions that involve the upregulation of these molecules -LRB- e.g. inflammation and atherosclerosis -RRB-.
The results suggest a new option for HIV gene therapy ; bcl-2 muteins that have noncleavable alterations surrounding the HIV protease cleavage site.
These data suggest that the action of tepoxalin to inhibit proliferation in PBMC may be at least in part due to its ability to reduce the amount of available iron resulting in decreased activation of NF kappa B and subsequent inhibition of cytokine production.
The Ca2 + / calmodulin-dependent protein kinase -LRB- CaMK -RRB- type IV/Gr is selectively expressed in T lymphocytes and is activated after signaling via the T cell antigen receptor -LRB- TCR -RRB-, indicating that it mediates some of the Ca -LRB- 2 + -RRB- - dependent transcriptional events that follow TCR engagement.
The underlying signaling pathways appear to be different from those utilized by TNF-alpha, a better characterized cytokine that induces the transcription of immediate-early genes.
Chemoattractants stimulate the expression of several inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, which in turn may activate their respective receptors and initiate an autocrine regulatory mechanism for persistent cytokine and chemokine gene expression.
Up to date, the biological function of Spi-B remains unknown.
We raise the hypothesis that delta Spi-B might affect Spi-B function by recruiting factors involved in Spi-B activity.
This cellular system offers the advantage that MHC class II induction is studied in a `` physiologic '' cell lineage that, as a result of this expression within the thymus, is thought to participate to the selection and maturation of the T cells.
These results suggest that both common mechanisms, such as the one mediated by the CIITA trans-activator, and distinct tissue-specific constraints contribute to the transcriptional control of constitutive and IFN-gamma-induced MHC class II gene expression.
Soluble factors do not appear to be involved in the mechanism of inhibition.
Therefore, the NF-kappa B/Rel inhibition might be ascribed to a lack of cooperation between accessory cells and T lymphocytes, resulting from down-regulation of a costimulatory molecule, such as CD80, produced by IL-10 on activated monocytes.
Since inappropriate activation of kappa B-driven genes has a physiopathologic role in a number of diseases, such as HIV infection, our findings support the possibility of using this cytokine to suppress an undesirable activation of these transcription factors.
In this study the effect of IL-10 on the expression of the protooncogene c-fos was investigated, because Fos plays a potential role in the regulation of B cell proliferation and differentiation.
Since this is the first report on IL-10 induced signal transduction, these data may help to identify the intracellular mechanisms by which IL-10 stimulates human B-cells.
DNA-protein binding studies indicated that NF-kappaB, c-Jun, and potentially novel proteins -LRB- around 35 kDa -RRB- can bind to this important sequence.
Taken together, these results suggest that the cooperation of different transcription factors is essential for IL-9 gene expression in T cells.
It contains two potential Ets binding sites conserved in the murine gammac promoter gene, one of which was found essential for functional promoter activity as determined by mutational analysis.
These results indicate that, as already reported for the IL2Rbeta promoter, GA-binding protein is an essential component of gammac basal promoter activity.
Although GABP expression is not restricted to the hematopoietic lineage, its interaction with other specific factors may contribute to the tissue-specific expression of the gammac gene.
The possibility that Oct-2a can act as an activator and/or a repressor may have important consequences for the function of Oct-2a in B cell differentiation and other developmental processes.
To determine whether the IL-10R has signaling functions similar to IL-6R in cells normally expressing these receptors, leukocytes of the B -, T -, and NK-cell lineages were treated with either cytokine.
Although GM-CSF does not appear to be essential for normal hemopoiesis, overexpression of GM-CSF has been implicated in the pathogenesis of some diseases such as myeloid leukemia and chronic inflammation.
An NF-kappaB/Rel binding site within the GM-CSF promoter, termed the kappaB element appears to be important for controlling expression in reporter gene assays in response to a number of stimuli in T cells.
We investigated oligonucleotide-directed triple helix formation across this regulatory sequence as a potential tool to inhibit GM-CSF gene transcription.
Colinear triplex formation acts as a selective transcriptional repressor of the GM-CSF gene and may have potential therapeutic application in cases of undesirable overexpression of this protein.
This B cell restricted coactivator may be responsible for the B cell specific expression of PU .1 mediated by the octamer site.
In the locus control region -LRB- LCR -RRB- of the beta-globin locus, in vivo footprints on NF-E2 -LRB- or AP-1 -RRB- and GATA-1 motifs remained the same regardless of whether the fetal or the adult globin genes are expressed.
The adult globin expressing cells displayed more extensive footprints than the fetal globin expressing cells in the 3' regulatory sequences of both the Agamma - and the beta-globin genes, suggesting a role of these 3' elements in beta-globin gene expression.
Our results suggest that the bulk of protein-DNA interactions that underlies the developmental control of globin genes takes place in the gamma - and beta-globin gene promoters, and that GT motifs of the beta-globin locus LCR may play a role in the developmental regulation of human beta-globin gene expression, perhaps by increasing the probability of interaction of the LCR holocomplex with the fetal or the adult globin gene.
The developmental stage-specificity of PYBF and the location of its binding site between the fetal and adult beta-globin -LRB- HBB -RRB- - like genes suggest that PBYF and its binding site may function in fetal-to-adult globin gene switching.
We show that both delta383 and delta99 specifically enhance expression of cat for plasmids containing a human adult globin -LRB- HBB -RRB- promoter, whereas expression of similar constructs using human fetal -LRB- A gamma - -RRB- globin -LRB- HBG1 -RRB- or simian virus 40 -LRB- SV40 -RRB- promoters is not enhanced.
The results suggest that PYBF and the pyrimidine-rich region upstream from HBD can specifically enhance HBB transcription in adult erythroid cells.
These results suggest that a novel mechanism of gene regulation by `` differential repression '' is used by multiple members of repressor proteins with different repressive effects on the IFN-responsive genes.
The proximity of hLH-2 to the breakpoint on chromosome 9 raises the possibility of cis-activation by the t -LRB- 9 ; 22 -RRB- -LRB- q34 ; q11 -RRB- translocation.
The role of hLH-2 in the development or progression of leukaemia is not known.
However, hLH-2 may prove useful as a marker of CML for monitoring residual disease.
Despite these similar mRNA levels, BCL-6 protein expression was threefold to 34-fold higher in germinal center B cells than in resting B cells, suggesting that BCL-6 protein levels are controlled by translational or posttranslational mechanisms.
These observations suggest that the germinal center reaction provides unique activation signals to B cells that allow for continued, high-level BCL-6 expression.
As neutrophils occupy approximately 92 % of the cells in this fraction, the cells expressing p45 is most likely to be neutrophils.
The expression of p45 mRNA in the neutrophils declined rapidly after transfer of the cells to in vitro culture and G-CSF could not sustain the expression from the down-regulation, suggesting the E2 may also participate in the regulation of neutrophil-specific gene expression.
The processing of p105 occurs constitutively in vivo but can be markedly enhanced by various cellular activation agents, although the underlying regulatory mechanism is not yet clear.
Transient transfection studies performed in COS7 cells revealed that the newly synthesized p105 protein appears to be more rapidly processed compared to its accumulated form that is already associated with the processed product p50.
These findings suggest that the processing of p105 is subject to negative regulation by the various NF-kappaB subunits.
Although the mechanism of HIV-1 activation with heat shock has not been fully elucidated yet, it is presumed PKC plays an important role in HIV-1 activation.
The protein products of the c-fos -LRB- p62c-fos -RRB- and c-jun -LRB- p39c-jun -RRB- genes are members of the AP-1 transcription factor family and are thought to play important roles in the regulation of gene expression during the cell cycle.
However, no cytoplasmic p62c-fos was detected in unstimulated PBL, although in some cases cytoplasmic p39c-jun was detected, suggesting that subcellular compartmentalization of these proteinsmay occur under certain circumstances.
NF-kappaB regulatory effect of alpha-lipoate and N-acetylcysteine appeared to be, at least in part, due to their ability to stabilize elevation of -LSB- Ca2 + -RSB- i following oxidant challenge.
Results of this study indicate that a sustained elevated -LSB- Ca2 + -RSB- i is a significant factor in oxidant-induced NF-kappaB activation.
The maximum levels of these markers induced by ML-9 were comparable to those induced by VD3, but after removal of ML-9 from the medium by washing the cells, the expressions of theses markers decreased within 4 hours and reached basal levels in 1 day, indicating that ML-9 's induction of expression of differentiation-associated phenotypes was reversible.
These results suggest that ML-9 should be useful for studying the mechanisms of monocytic differentiation.
We conclude that the effects of IFN-gamma on the expression of the transcription factors AP-1 and NF-kappa B may be important for the modulatory effects of IFN-gamma on the cytokine expression in activated human monocytes.
CNI-1493 blocked neither the lipopolysaccharide -LRB- LPS -RRB- - induced increases in the expression of TNF mRNA nor the translocation of nuclear factor NF-kappa B to the nucleus in macrophages activated by 15 min of LPS stimulation, indicating that CNI-1493 does not interfere with early NF-kappa B-mediated transcriptional regulation of TNF.
Identification of the molecular target through which CNI - 1493 inhibits TNF translation should provide insight into the regulation of macrophage activation and mechanisms of inflammation.
It is likely that the constitutive activation of STAT proteins is a part of the events of leukemogenesis.
The CMAT protein appears to be a novel inducible protein involved in the regulation of c-myb expression during T-cell activation.
Inactivation of IkappaBbeta by the tax protein of human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 : a potential mechanism for constitutive induction of NF-kappaB.
Recent studies indicate that HTLV-1 Tax targets IkappaBalpha to the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway.
However, it remains unclear how this viral protein induces a persistent rather than transient NF-kappaB response.
These findings with IkappaBbeta provide a potential mechanism for the constitutive activation of NF-kappaB in Tax-expressing cells.
Together, our results indicate that occupancy of the viral enhancer by NF-kappaB -LRB- p50/p65 -RRB- heterodimers is required for ongoing transcription of integrated HIV provirus in monocytes, even in cells chronically infected and permanently producing functional HIV Tat protein.
When unstimulated HeLa cells are ruptured in hypotonic buffer without salt or detergent, immunoadsorption of either STAT1 or STAT2 from the resulting cytosol yields coimmunoadsorption of the other STAT protein.
Our data suggest that interferon-alpha / beta-induced tyrosine phosphorylation increases the stability of a preexisting, latent, STAT1-STAT2 signaling complex.
These results indicate that mitogenic combinations of T cell activation signals are integrated at the level of NF-MATp35 induction.
The up-regulation of galectin-3 expression appeared to correlate well with HTLV-I gene expression, as undetectable or very low levels of galectin-3 were found in the S1T and ATL-1K cell lines, which are nonproductively infected with HTLV-I.
Analysis of various Tax mutants suggested that galectin-3 promoter induction is dependent on activation of the cyclic-AMP-responsive element binding protein/activation transcription factor family of transcription factors and, to a lesser extent, nuclear factor-kappa B/Rel induction.
Together, these findings raise the possibility that HTLV-I Tax production induces the transcription and subsequent synthesis and secretion of galectin-3, which in turn may further activate these T cells and contribute to the altered properties of cell growth found in adult T cell leukemia induced by HTLV-I.
The role of alterations of the MTS1 tumor suppressor gene on chromosome 9p21, which encodes p16, the inhibitor of cyclin-dependent-kinase-4 and 6, in tumorigenesis is not yet clear.
Although a role of p16 in this regulation has been presumed, there is no proof so far that loss of this tumor suppressor gene really affects E2F-mediated regulations.
A gel retardation experiment with synthetic double-stranded oligonucleotides showed that activated NF-kappa B consisting of p50/p65 heterodimer bound to all four putative NF-kappa B DNA probes, suggesting that all four putative NF-kappa B recognition sites play an important role in inducible TNF-alpha expression.
E3330 decreased activated NF-kappa B in nuclei, suggesting that E3330 inhibits NF-kappa B activation and/or translocation of the nuclei.
Western blotting analysis with anti-I kappa B-alpha antibody indicated that E3330 inhibited degradation of I kappa B-alpha, which is an inhibitory protein of NF-kappa B, in LPS-stimulated monocytes.
E3330 may suppress the production of active oxygen species serving as common messengers to activate NF-kappa B..
These data indicate that, in contrast to most LPS effects, AP-1, but not nuclear factor-kappaB, mediates LPS induction of collagenase transcription in macrophagelike cells.
DNase I footprinting indicated that nuclear factors from activated T lymphocytes bound a promoter-proximal site, META -LRB- P -RRB-, and a promoter-distal site, META -LRB- D + -RRB-, within the 400-base pair META region.
Our results, taken together, indicate that META -LRB- D + -RRB- is a novel transcriptional enhancer element that is similar in its cell-type specificity, activation dependence, and CsA sensitivity to the NFAT element.
It may be relevant to the role of MMTV in expression of Mls antigens or the induction of T cell lymphomas.
As reported here, structure-function analysis of the CAML gene in Jurkat T cells indicates that two of CAML 's putative membrane-spanning domains are necessary and sufficient for the modulation of intracellular calcium.
We propose that the hydrophobic C-terminal tail of CAML forms its effector domain, thus implicating the N-terminal hydrophilic domain in a regulatory role.
IL-1 receptor antagonist -LRB- ra -RRB- inhibited LPS enhancement of HIV expression in GM-CSF-stimulated cells, suggesting that endogenous IL-1 was involved in LPS-mediated viral production.
Thus, the balance between an endogenously produced viral inducer -LRB- IL-1 beta -RRB- and an inhibitor -LRB- IL-1ra -RRB- may represent an important pathway leading to modulation of HIV expression from monocytic cells.
We propose that BEAD-1 functions as a boundary that separates the TCR alpha/delta locus into distinct regulatory domains controlled by Edelta and the TCR alpha enhancer, and that it prevents Edelta from opening the chromatin of the TCR alpha joining gene segments for VDJ recombination at an early stage of T cell development.
To validate the method, we made use of earlier receptor binding studies indicating that normal human monocytes and activated, but not resting, lymphocytes expressed the VDR.
The current study investigates the hypothesis that CD40 expressed on lung fibroblasts is an activation structure and mechanism for interaction with hemopoietic cells.
Data reported herein support the hypothesis that cognate interactions between tissue fibroblasts and infiltrating T lymphocytes, via the CD40/CD40L pathway, augment inflammation and may promote fibrogenesis by activating both cell types.
Altogether, our data demonstrate that : -LRB- a -RRB- the ability of B cells to release TNF-alpha after triggering of HLA-DR antigens depends on their stage of differentiation ; -LRB- b -RRB- levels of released TNF-alpha seem to correlate with the stage of B-cell maturation but do not correlate with the amounts of cell surface HLA-DR antigens ; -LRB- c -RRB- secreted TNF-alpha regulates the levels of expression of NF-kappa B and AP-1 by an autocrine loop ; and -LRB- d -RRB- intracellular signals mediating TNF-alpha release by B cells are distinct from those regulating homotypic aggregation and proliferation.
The ability of CMV IE gene products to enhance IL-6 production may play an important role in immune inflammatory states associated with CMV infection.
The results indicate that stimulation of NK cells, either freshly isolated from peripheral blood lymphocytes -LRB- PBL -RRB- or long-term cultured NK clones, with specific cell targets results in an increased binding activity of NF-kappa B and AP-1 transcription factors measured by gel retardation.
Altogether, these results support the hypothesis that the activation of NK cells involved transcriptional and post-transcriptional events, and that reactive intermediates may play an important role in the molecular processes related with the generation of a cytotoxic response by NK cells.
Induction of Cepsilon germline transcripts by IL-4 in B cells that lack the gammac chain may involve signaling via the IL-13R.
Alternatively, the IL-4Ralpha chain may transduce intracellular signals that lead to Cepsilon gene transcription independently of its association with other chains.
These results suggest that homodimerization of the IL-4Ralpha chain is sufficient to transduce Jak1-dependent intracellular signals that lead to IgE isotype switching.
We therefore investigated whether NF-kappaB/Rel proteins are expressed in human neutrophils, as well as their fate on cell activation.
To our knowledge, this constitutes the first indication that NF-kappaB activation may underlie the action of proinflammatory stimuli towards human neutrophil gene expression and, as such, adds a new facet to our understanding of neutrophil biology.
Because binding sites for B-cell-specific activator protein -LRB- BSAP -RRB- are located upstream of several switch regions in the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene cluster, BSAP might play a role in the regulation of germline transcription and isotype switching.
We investigated whether BSAP plays a role in the transcriptional regulation of the epsilon germline promoter in human B cells.
CONCLUSION : These studies suggest that RA can augment IL-2 mRNA production by T cells with a possible paracrine effect on IL-2R-alpha expression.
These changes appear to be mediated by RAR-alpha.
Thus, IL-2 may be another important cytokine modulated by RA in the immune response.
These results demonstrate that Itk plays a role in IL-2 production, indicating a critical involvement of Itk in the initial stage of T cell activation by mediating signals from the TCR/CD3 complex, CD2, and CD28.
These results indicate that signaling through Jak3 is activated by CD40 and plays an important role in CD40-mediated functions.
These results suggests that both proximal steps in CD8 + T-cell activation as well as the later phases are unresponsive to A6H ligation.
Molecular differences of the A6H molecule or distinct regulation of the A6H transduced AP-1 activation pathway may exist in CD4 + and CD8 + T cell subpopulations.
The results indicate that DNA methylation, chromatin structure, and transactivation at an Sp1 site contribute to the highly restricted expression of this myelomonocytic lineage specific gene.
To assess whether this inhibition was mediated via modulation of the cellular transcription factor, NF-kappa B, we carried out gel shift analysis on nuclear extracts prepared under different conditions of cell stimulation in the presence or absence of ascorbate, N-acetylcysteine -LRB- NAC -RRB-, or zidovudine -LRB- AZT -RRB-.
These results suggest that the molecular mechanism of HIV inhibition by ascorbate is not mediated via NF-kappa B inhibition, unlike that seen with other antioxidants.
These effects of PI 3-kinase were not mediated by previously identified PI 3-kinase effectors, such as protein kinase B, a positive regulator of PI 3-kinase, or the GTPase Rac, and are therefore likely to involve a novel, as yet unknown, effector molecule.
At least one of them appears to be myeloid specific.
Contrary to the results in Jurkat cells, PDTC did not inhibit tumor necrosis factor-alpha-induced NF kappaB activation in astrocytes ; instead PDTC itself induces NF kappaB activation in astrocytes, and this may be related to scavenging of endogenously produced NO by the PDTC iron complex.
Our data suggest that nNOS in astrocytes regulates NF kappaB activity and iNOS expression, and indicate a novel regulatory role for nNOS in tonically suppressing central nervous system, NF kappaB-regulated genes.
We found that NFATx1 DNA binding activity and interaction with AP-1 polypeptides were dependent on its central Rel similarity region and that transcriptional activation was reduced by deletions of either its N-terminal domain or its C-terminal domain, suggesting the presence of intrinsic transcriptional activation motifs in both regions.
Our results support the model proposing that the N-terminal domain confers calcium-signaling dependence on NFATx1 transactivation activity by regulating its intracellular localization through a protein module that associates with calcineurin and is a target of its phosphatase activity.
Based upon work from our laboratory, we propose that inhibition of NF-kappa B activation produces significant anti inflammatory activity which may be mediated by the inhibition of transcription of certain pro-inflammatory mediators and adhesion molecules.
Human IL-5 promoter/enhancer-luciferase gene construct transfected to T-cell clones was transcribed on either TCR or IL-2R stimulation and was clearly downregulated by dexamethasone, indicating that the approximately 500-bp human IL-5 gene segment located 5' upstream of the coding region contains activation-inducible enhancer elements responsible for the regulation by GC.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assay analysis suggested that AP-1 and NF-kappaB are among the possible targets of GC actions on TCR-stimulated T cells.
These results suggest that macrophage differentiation results in the expression of active p50/RelA -LRB- p65 -RRB- heterodimers with the capacity to activate target gene expression.
The parallel induction of I kappa B alpha synthesis may allow for the continuous presence of a cytoplasmic reservoir of p50/RelA -LRB- p65 -RRB- complexes that are readily available for inducer-mediated stimulation.
Unlike full-sized NOTCH1, two such truncated forms of the protein either lacking a major portion of the extracellular domain -LRB- DeltaE -RRB- or consisting only of the intracellular domain -LRB- ICN -RRB- were found to activate transcription in cultured cells, presumably through RBP-Jkappa response elements within DNA.
While ICN appeared primarily in the nucleus, DeltaE localized to cytoplasmic and nuclear membranes, suggesting that intranuclear localization is not essential for oncogenesis or transcriptional activation.
In gel mobility shift assays, hT86 attenuated the intensity of the retarded band composed of the octamer probe and Oct-2, suggesting a dominant negative effect on the DNA-binding activity of Oct-2.
Western and supershift analyses indicated that functional Jun and Fos proteins were present in nuclear extracts of PMA-differentiated U937 cells.
Promoter deletion constructs demonstrated the potential role of distal promoter sequences in regulating collagenase-1 transcription.
In particular, Western, supershift, and promoter deletion analyses suggested a role for CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein-beta -LRB- C/EBP-beta -RRB- binding site between -2010 and -1954 in regulating transcription of collagenase-1 in monocytic cells.
Our findings suggest that distinct regulatory elements, acting somewhat independently of each other, control expression of collagenase-1.
In addition, our data suggests that the rapid PMA-mediated induction of collagenase-1 transcription is controlled by a mechanism distinct from that regulating the sustained expression of this proteinase in activated macrophages.
These results appear to indicate that suppression of cytokine and NO generation by Azeptin results at least partially from the inhibition of NF-kappa B activation.
This finding indicates that phospholipase A2 and 5-lipoxygenase are also involved.
However, the NF-kappaB activation pathway involving the acidic sphingomyelinase of the endolysosomial membrane did not seem to participate in the LPS-induced NF-kappaB activation in U937 cells.
Possible role of nuclear factor-kappa B activity in germline C epsilon transcription in a human Burkitt lymphoma B cell line.
Nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- plays a broad role in gene regulation, but it is not evident whether NF-kappa B acts as a messenger system for germline C epsilon transcription.
In addition, N-acetyl-L-cysteine -LRB- NAC -RRB-, a potent antioxidant, decreased NF-kappa B activation caused by IL-4, anti-CD40 mAb, or their combination.
These results indicate that IL-4 and ligation of CD40 induce NF-kappa B expression via at least a mechanism dependent on the PI3-kinase pathway and suggest that NF-kappa B sensitive to NAC may play a role in regulating germline C epsilon transcription.
Deletional analysis indicated that five Sp1 sites mediated basal expression in uninduced cells.
Replacement of the two AP-1 sites with intrinsically bent DNA partially restored LPS induction, suggesting an additional structural role for the AP-1 sites.
These data indicated that c-Fos/c-Jun, c-Rel/p65, and Sp1 regulate TF gene expression in human monocytic cells.
Similar arrays of functionally important NF-kappaB/NFAT and Ets binding sites are present in the transcriptional enhancers of human immunodeficiency viruses types 1 and 2 -LRB- HIV-1 and HIV-2 -RRB-, suggesting that this pattern of nuclear protein binding sites reflects an evolutionarily conserved mechanism for regulating inducible T-cell gene expression that has been co-opted during HIV evolution.
Despite these findings, the molecular mechanisms by which Ets and NF-kappaB/NFAT proteins cooperatively regulate inducible T-cell gene expression remained unknown.
A dominant-negative mutant of NF-kappaB p50 that binds DNA but fails to interact with Ets proteins inhibits the synergistic activation of the HIV-1 and HIV-2 enhancers by NF-kappaB -LRB- p50 + p65 -RRB- and Ets-1, suggesting that physical interaction between Ets and NF-kappaB proteins is required for the transcriptional activity of the HIV-1 and HIV-2 enhancers.
Taken together, these findings suggest that evolutionarily conserved physical interactions between Ets and NF-kappaB/NFAT proteins are important in regulating the inducible expression of T-cell genes and viruses.
These interactions represent a potential target for the development of novel immunosuppressive and antiviral therapies.
T cell activation and ensuing cellular gene activation can be critical for HIV-1 replication.
The hypothesis that the nuclear factor of activated T cells -LRB- NF-AT -RRB- may influence HIV-1 replication is therefore compelling given the tight correlation of HIV-1 transcriptional induction to T cell activation.
However, little is known about negative regulation of IL-1beta expression at the transcriptional level, which may play an important role in anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effects.
In addition, TRAMP does not appear to interact with any of the known apoptosis-inducing ligands of the TNF family.
The possible clinical use of the methyl xanthine derivative, pentoxifylline -LRB- PF -RRB-, for the treatment of T cell-dependent diseases is being noted with increasing interest.
The greater selectivity of PF, compared with FK506, at both the molecular and cellular levels may prove advantageous in manipulating T cell responses in vivo.
We suggest that the T cell-specific expression of the IL-3 gene is partly controlled through the enhancer by cooperation between Oct and NFAT family proteins.
They are particularly abundant in lymphoid tissues and are thought to be critical for the transcription of genes involved in immune and inflammatory responses.
This detection suggested a preferential activation of p50/c-Rel in medullary thymocytes, whereas p50/p65 was present in both cortical and medullary regions of human thymus lobules.
These observations suggest that p65 and c-Rel complexes play distinct roles in gene expression and that both forms of NF-kappa B play critical roles during late stages of the intrathymic maturation of T cells.
It had previously been thought that ZEBRA 's capacity to disrupt EBV latency resided primarily in its ability to activate transcription of genes that encode products required for lytic replication.
The additional function that is required for initiation of the lytic viral life cycle is likely to require phosphorylation of serine 186 of the ZEBRA protein, which may influence either DNA recognition or transcriptional activation of lytic viral promoters in a chromatinized viral episome.
Our studies indicate that transcriptional synergy mediated by activation of both Egr-1 and NF-kappa B may have important ramifications in T cell development by upregulating NF-kappa B1 gene expression.
It is concluded that topoisomerase II inhibitors may induce the differentiation of promonocytic cells, independently of their capacity to cause DNA strand breaks.
However, there are other effects, such as the early activation of protein kinase C, which are probably derived from the production of primary DNA breakage by some anti-topoisomerase drugs.
Constitutive expression of p50 homodimer in freshly isolated human monocytes decreases with in vitro and in vivo differentiation : a possible mechanism influencing human immunodeficiency virus replication in monocytes and mature macrophages.
We investigated whether this may be partly explained by changes in expression of NF-kappaB with monocyte differentiation.
The replacement of p50 homodimers with transcriptionally active heterodimers following time in culture may partially explain the progressive increase in susceptibility of monocytes to HIV infection during in vitro culture.
The change in NF-kappaB components with monocyte differentiation in vivo may also explain the different transcriptional activities of these cell populations in HIV-infected individuals.
These data suggest that activated NFAT is involved in the effector function of eTh2 cells and that the failure of eTh1 cells to produce IL-4 in response to an antigen is due, at least partially, to a failure to induce high-level transcription of the IL-4 gene by NFAT.
Regulation of NFAT could be therefore a critical element in the polarization to eTh1 or eTh2.
We also report that the human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 -LRB- HTLV-1 -RRB- - derived Tax trans-activator induces NF-kappaB activity in 1.3 E2, suggesting that this viral protein does not operate via the defective pathway.
In addition, this analysis suggests a common step in the signaling pathways that trigger I kappaB alpha, I kappaB beta, and I kappaB epsilon degradation.
However, in differentiating erythroid cells, which must incorporate high levels of iron to sustain hemoglobin synthesis, and in macrophages, which are involved in iron storage, transcriptional regulation seemed to be a relevant mechanism.
Cotransfection with a transdominant negative mutant of the NF-YA subunit abolishes the transcriptional activation by heme, indicating that NF-Y plays an essential role in this activation.
However, its activity becomes lower in the double-positive and a fraction of the CD4 + CD8int / - cell population, indicating that an additional enhancer, located in either the first or the third intron of the CD4 gene, is required for CD4 gene expression in this population.
This silencer is inactive in the most immature DN thymocytes, which probably use a distinct silencer mechanism to down-regulate CD4 gene expression.
Unexpectedly, the CD4 silencer is also active in CD4 + CD8int / - cells of the thymus, implying that an anti-silencer may be required to resume CD4 expression in this cell population.
Collectively, these results suggest that HOCl should be considered as an oxidative species capable of inducing NF-kappaB in a T-lymphocytic cell line through a transduction mechanism involving ROS, and having a long-distance effect through subsequent TNF-alpha release.
In the present study, we investigated whether aberrancies in the regulation of c-fos/c-jun at the mRNA or protein level might underlie the age-associated impairments of AP-1 in human T cells.
These results suggest that underlying aberrancies in the induction of c-fos/c-jun as well as their nuclear regulatory proteins may contribute to the age-related impairments of AP-1 activation in human T cells.
The effect of GH appears to occur in an autocrine fashion, since the inhibitory effect on TNF-alpha secretion by constitutive GH production could be abolished in the presence of anti-hGH mAb.
The capacity of GH to inhibit LPS-induced TNF-alpha production by monocytes without altering other pathways leading to TNF-alpha production may be of potential relevance in septic shock, since GH is available for clinical use.
These findings suggest that PRE-I may play a role in the differential regulation of IL-4 gene expression levels.
These effects of D-ribose seemed almost irreversible but could be prevented by addition of 1 mM aminoguanidine or 10 mM N-acetylcysteine, thus suggesting that glycation and reactive oxygen species, generated through the glycation reaction, serve as mediators of the phenomena.
These observations suggest that protein glycation in pancreatic beta cells, which occurs in vivo under chronic hyperglycemia, suppresses insulin gene transcription and thus can explain part of the beta cell glucose toxicity.
However, the NF-IL6 gene is expressed in a variety of nonmyeloid cell types and is strongly inducible in response to inflammatory stimuli, making it an unlikely candidate to have an exclusive role as a combinatorial differentiation switch during myelopoiesis in human cells.
Molecular analysis of the cDNA and genomic clones indicated the presence of two exons encoding a protein with an apparent molecular mass of 32 kDa and a pI of 9.5.
Cotransfection of the C/EBP-epsilon sense and antisense expression constructs together with chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter vectors containing myeloid-cell-specific c-mim and human myeloperoxidase promoters suggested a role for C/EBP-epsilon transcription factor in the regulation of a subset of myeloid-cell-specific genes.
Understanding the cis - and transacting factors that regulate the tissue-specific expression of PECAM-1 should increase our understanding of the mechanisms by which vascular-specific gene expression is achieved.
Using electrophoretic mobility shift analysis we demonstrated that the promoter region spanning base pairs -1 to -275, which contains several putative binding sites for transcription factors, is bound by nuclear factors Sp1 and IRBP but not by C/EBPs.
Taken together these data indicate that carboxylesterase gene transcription in THP-1 cells starts at multiple initiation sites and that Sp1 and IRBP may be critical factors for modulating the differentiation-dependent transcription of this human carboxylesterase gene.
In addition, RFX1 can bind simultaneously, most likely as a heterodimer, with the transcription factor MIBP1 to NRE gamma.
In the absence of a cloned MIBP1 gene for further studies, we hypothesize that RFX1 acts with MIBP1 to negatively regulate the core promoter activity through the NRE gamma site.
The ability of RFX1 to transactivate the core promoter raises the possibility that RFX1 may play a dual role in regulating HBV gene expression.
The complex on the proximal site -LRB- NF kappa B2 -RRB- appears to be composed of p50 and relB.
The available data suggest that the NF kappa B2 nucleoprotein complex may cooperate with DNA-bound STAT6 to achieve IL-4-dependent activation of the human IgE germline gene.
This study tested the hypothesis that anti-LPS Abs neutralize endotoxin by blocking cellular uptake through mCD14.
It would thus appear that components of each P-like element-binding complexes are not identical and may coordinately contribute to transcriptional activity.
The development of resistance to host defense mechanisms such as tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- - and Fas-mediated apoptosis of transformed or virus-infected cells may be a critical component in the development of disease.
A putative function of BHRF1 in EBV-infected epithelial cells may be to protect virus-infected cells from TNF - and/or anti-Fas - induced cell death in order to maximize virus production.
Furthermore, it is highly expressed in Burkitt 's lymphoma cells and may participate in the pathogenesis of this disease.
We hypothesize that this 110-kDa protein may be a functionally important B cell-specific co-activator of A-MYB.
Thus, it is not unexpected that this versatile cellular homeostatic switch would be affected by a variety of viral pathogens, which have evolved mechanisms to utilize various aspects of Rel/NF-kappa B activity to facilitate their replication, cell survival and possibly evasion of immune responses.
1. In this study we hypothesized that in individuals with certain genetic makeup, MTBE, benzene or their metabolites act as adducts and may induce programmed cell death.
This reversal of apoptosis almost to the control level by inhibitor of NF-kappa B activation may indicate involvement of this signaling molecule in MTBE and benzene induction of programmed cell death.
The Ribophorin I-EVI1 fusion in particular may be a common occurrence in t -LRB- 3 ; 3 -RRB-.
However, the intracellular mechanisms for these effects of ethanol are yet to be understood.
Considering that nuclear regulatory factor-kappa beta -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- / Rel is a common regulatory element of the promoter region of the inflammatory cytokine genes, herein, we tested the hypothesis that acute ethanol affects NF-kappa B activation in human monocytes.
Thus, such unique activation of the inhibitory p50/p50 homodimer by acute ethanol treatment may result in inhibition rather than activation of NF-kappa B-regulated inflammatory cytokine genes.
Consequently, these results suggest that physiologically relevant concentrations of ethanol may affect production of inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1 beta, and interleukin-6 by disrupting NF-kappa B signaling in monocytes.
The binding of oxidized low-density lipoprotein -LRB- Ox LDL -RRB- by monocyte-macrophages causes pleiotropic effects, including changes in gene expression, and is thought to represent an early event in atherogenesis.
The integral membrane glycoprotein CD36 appears to play a physiological role in binding and uptake of Ox LDL by monocyte-macrophages, although the molecular events associated with CD36-Ox LDL interaction are unknown.
Our results support the idea that human CD36 mediates signal transduction events in response to Ox LDL.
Few of these factors are expressed exclusively in myeloid cells ; instead it appears that they cooperatively regulate transcription of myeloid-specific genes.
Among the regulatory promoter elements potentially regulating eotaxin gene expression and/or mediating the effects of anti-inflammatory drugs we identified consensus sequences known to interact with nuclear factors like NF-IL6, AP-1, a NF-kappa-B like consensus sequence and gamma-interferon - as well as glucocorticoid response elements.
In most cells, Rel/NF-kappa B transcription factors appear to mediate survival signals that protect cells from apoptosis ; however, under some circumstances, activation of these factors may also promote apoptosis.
Nuclear factor-kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- / Rel transcription factors may be involved in atherosclerosis, as is suggested by the presence of activated NF-kappa B in human atherosclerotic lesions.
These observations provide additional evidence that oxLDL is a potent modulator of gene expression and suggest that -LRB- dys -RRB- regulation of NF-kappa B/Rel is likely to play an important role in atherogenesis.
Transfection studies of LTR reporter constructs indicated that mutation of the DSE sites abrogated the LTR-mediated synergy induced by Ctx and TNFalpha, whereas the synergy induced by Ctx and IL-1beta was unaffected, suggesting TNFalpha and IL-1beta cooperate differently with the cAMP/PKA activation pathway to induce HIV-1 expression in U1 cells.
These data indicate that the TRE-like cAMP-responsive DSE sites within the 5' - untranslated leader can mediate the transcriptional cooperativity between TNFalpha and the cAMP/PKA pathway.
Since the DSE and TRE sites can not bind CREB/ATF homodimers, we propose a mechanism in which the HIV-1 DSE bind heterodimers composed of both AP-1 and CREB/ATF proteins.
These data suggest a model in which CD30 limits its own ability to transduce cell survival signals through signal-coupled depletion of TRAF2.
These studies provide a potential mechanism through which CD30, as well as other TRAF-binding members of the TNFR superfamily, can negatively regulate cell survival.
PURPOSE : To demonstrate that leukocyte adhesion to cultured corneal endothelial cells is mediated by the CD18 antigen, and to determine whether dexamethasone directly suppresses adhesion by inhibiting activation of nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NFkappaB -RRB-.
Pretreatment of the endothelium with dexamethasone inhibited leukocyte adhesion ; this may be due in part to the suppression of NFkappaB entry into the nucleus.
Given the role of this transcription factor in the regulation of gene expression in the inflammatory response, NF-kappaB inhibitors have been suggested as potential therapeutic drugs for inflammatory diseases.
Accordingly, electrophoretic mobility shift assays -LRB- EMSAs -RRB- indicated that pyrrolidine DTC -LRB- PDTC -RRB- prevented NF-kappaB, and NFAT DNA-binding activity in T cells stimulated with either phorbol myristate acetate plus ionophore or antibodies against the CD3-T-cell receptor complex and simultaneously activated the binding of AP-1.
Strikingly, Western blotting and immunocytochemical experiments indicated that PDTC promoted a transient and rapid shuttling of NFATp and NFATc, leading to their accelerated export from the nucleus of activated T cells.
We propose that the activation of an NFAT kinase by PDTC could be responsible for the rapid shuttling of the NFAT, therefore transiently converting the sustained transactivation of this transcription factor that occurs during lymphocyte activation, and show that c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase -LRB- JNK -RRB- can act by directly phosphorylating NFATp.
In addition, the combined inhibitory effects on NFAT and NF-KB support a potential use of DTCs as immunosuppressants.
This difference in efficacy, which correlates with the compounds' anti-inflammatory potency in vivo, may be explained by differences in structure and conformation.
These data suggest a molecular mechanism for the anti-inflammatory effect of sesquiterpene lactones, which differs from that of other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs -LRB- NSAIDs -RRB-, indomethacin and acetyl salicylic acid.
Recent studies from our laboratory have indicated that protein tyrosine phosphatase -LRB- PTPase -RRB- inhibitors can down-modulate the tumor necrosis factor -LRB- TNF -RRB- - mediated activation of the nuclear transcription factor NF-kappa B in ML-1a, a monocytic cell line -LRB- Singh and Aggarwal, J. Biol. Chem. 1995 : 270 : 10631 -RRB-.
PAO was found to be effective even when added 3 h after TNF, suggesting a rapid mode of action of this inhibitor.
Thus, overall, our results demonstrate that a PTPase is involved either directly or indirectly in the pathway leading to the induction of endothelial cell adhesion molecules by TNF.
Because of their role in cell adhesion, PTPase may provide a novel target of drug development for treatment of inflammation, atherogenesis, and tumor metastasis.
Transcriptional up-regulation of the c-sis/platelet-derived growth factor-B -LRB- PDGF-B -RRB- proto-oncogene by the Tax protein of human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 has been implicated as one possible mechanism of cellular transformation by human T-cell leukemia virus type 1.
Flow cytometry analysis indicated that these cells were expressing high levels of vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 -LRB- VCAM-1 -LSB- CD106 -RSB- -RRB-, a 110-kDa member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily, first identified on endothelial cells stimulated with inflammatory cytokines.
Collectively, these results therefore suggest that the exclusive Tax-induced expression of VCAM-1 on T cells may represent a pivotal event in the progression of HTLV-1-associated diseases.
Although subtle gene movements within those defined topographical regions can not be excluded by this study, the results indicate that tissue specificity of gene expression is not accompanied by drastic changes in gene nuclear topography, rather suggesting that gene organization within the nucleus may be primarily dependent on structural constraints imposed on the respective chromosomes.
The IL-2-gene transcription rate is increased 3.4-fold, indicating that the effect of IL-7 is in part mediated at the transcriptional level.
Our finding that Vpr can regulate NF-kappa B supports the hypothesis that some aspects of viral pathogenesis are the consequence of cell dysregulation by Vpr.
The initiating event is still uncertain, but activation of a recently described receptor-associated protein kinase is one of the earliest events detectable -LRB- Martin et al., Eur.J.Immunol .1994.24 : 1566 -RRB-.
IL-1 signaling is commonly accompanied by oxidative processes and is thought to be subject to redox regulation.
We therefore investigated whether the activation of the IL-1RI-associated protein kinase could be a target for redox regulation and whether an altered activity of the kinase could influence IL-1-mediated NF-kappa B activation.
Subnuclear fractionation reveals that there are two ATF1 isoforms which appear to differ with respect to DNA binding activity and partition selectively between nuclear matrix and nonmatrix compartments, consistent with the role of the nuclear matrix in regulating gene expression.
In the mouse embryo, mNFATc transcript was strongly expressed in thymus, lung and submandibular gland and weakly in skeletal muscle and heart suggesting that mNFATc may have a role both in embryogenesis and in mature T cells.
However, nuclear targets for PI3K are not known.
Results indicated that -LRB- i -RRB- constitutive c-fos transcript levels are significantly higher in patients subsequently responding to IFN-alpha therapy -LRB- p < 0.01 -RRB- and positively correlated with the proportion of lymphocytes -LRB- r = 0.6895, p < 0.01 -RRB- and negatively with the proportion of immature cells -LRB- r = -0.568, p < 0.01 -RRB- contained in the pbmc preparations tested, -LRB- ii -RRB- constitutive mRNA levels of the hybrid bcr/abl, c-myc and p53 are positively correlated with each other, but failed to relate to disease parameters, and -LRB- iii -RRB- acute and chronic in vivo exposure to IFN-alpha is accompanied by upregulation of c-fos and downregulation of c-myc mRNA levels in responder patients.
Thus we hypothesized that combinations of hypoxia and inflammatory stimuli may differentially regulate expression of endothelial ICAM-1.
Human C/EBP epsilon is a newly cloned gene coding for a CCAAT/enhancer binding protein that may be involved in the regulation of myeloid differentiation.
We suspect that the C/EBP epsilon promoter/enhancer contains a retinoic acid-response element that is directly stimulated by retinoids.
This suggests that in B cells, CD40-induced NF-kappa B activation can occur independently of TRAF2 and TRAF5 association.
NF-kappa B activation was independent of the transmembrane domain of CD40, suggesting that it is independent of p23, a molecule that associates with CD40 in a region other than the cytoplasmic domain.
These transcription factors are either not produced due to block of transcription of their respective genes -LRB- Oct-2, OBF-1, PU .1 -RRB-, or are rendered inactive posttranslationally -LRB- NF-kappa B, E47 -RRB-.
We suggest that extinction of Ig genes is part of a global mechanism that suppresses the differentiation program foreign to the HeLa phenotype.
However, the precise factors that mediate this induction mechanism remain unknown.
Our unexpected observations of paternal or biallelic expression of WT1 in fibroblasts and lymphocytes, together with the previous findings of maternal or biallelic expression in placentae and brains, suggest that the allele-specific regulatory system of WT1 is unique and may be controlled by a putative tissue - and individual-specific modifier.
These results indicate that LMP1 appropriates TRADD to enable efficient long-term lymphoblastoid cell outgrowth.
High-level NF-kappaB activation also appears to be a critical component of long-term outgrowth.
A better understanding of transcriptional regulation at this important stage of T-cell maturation may yield new insights into T-cell development and new immunotherapeutic targets.
In vitro, the ICAM-1 kappa B site appeared to bind RelA and c-Rel homodimers as well as heterodimers with NF-kappa B1, but weakly NF-kappa B1 homodimers.
We argue that in vivo RelA homodimers are likely to play a dominant role in TNF-alpha-induced ICAM-1 transcription in monocytic cells.
Our data also suggest that, unlike I kappa B alpha, I kappa B beta is constitutively phosphorylated and resynthesized as a hypophosphorylated form.
The absence of slow migrating forms of I kappa B beta following stimulation suggests that the phosphorylation does not necessarily constitute the signal-induced event which targets the molecule for proteolysis.
The elevated turnover of endogenous I kappa B alpha in Namalwa cells is inhibited by a proteasome inhibitor and thus seems to be driven by the same degradation machinery as the slower turnover in non-B cells.
These observations suggest that resynthesis of I kappa B alpha and removal of the stimulus are obligatory steps for the inactivation of nuclear NF kappa B..
Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from atopic asthma patients both proliferated and produced IL-5 after incubation with mite allergen, suggesting that mite-specific helper T cells were involved in the eosinophilic inflammation of atopic asthma.
A human IL-5 promoter/enhancer luciferase gene construct transfected into IL-5-producing T cell clones was clearly transcribed after stimulation, indicating that the 515 base pair IL-5 gene segment upstream of the coding region was sufficient to respond to activating signals in human helper T cells.
The same gene segment was not transcribed in IL-5-nonproducing T cell clones, suggesting that human T cell IL-5 synthesis is regulated at the transcriptional level.
Experiments with T cell hybridomas confirmed these findings and suggested that a unique transcription factor may be essential for human IL-5 gene transcription.
CONCLUSION : Enhanced IL-5 production by helper T cells seems to cause the eosinophilic inflammation of both atopic and nonatopic asthma.
Elucidation of IL-5-specific regulatory mechanisms may facilitate the development of novel treatments for allergic diseases associated with eosinophilic inflammation.
The binding site for nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- is present at the promoter region of the germline Cepsilon gene, but there is little information on whether this factor is involved in regulating IgE synthesis by human B cells.
Of note, CD40-mediated enhancement of IL-4-driven germline Cepsilon transcription was markedly decreased by NAC or by a decoy oligodeoxynucleotide for NF-kappaB.
These results suggest that coordination of NF-kappaB and STAT6 may be required for induction of germline Cepsilon transcription by IL-4, and that CD40-mediated NF-kappaB activation may be important in regulating both enhancement of germline Cepsilon transcription and class switching to IgE.
The molecular mechanism -LRB- s -RRB- responsible for this phenomenon have not been clearly elucidated.
We have hypothesized that such defects in fetal/neonatal T-cell activation may be due to lack of expression of the transcriptional regulatory elements required for T-cell activation.
These results suggest that additional factor -LRB- s -RRB- are necessary for full ER function.
We hypothesize that interference in DNA-binding activities of GATA-1 and CACCC-binding proteins is the mechanism by which the ER inhibits regulation of these genes.
Cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB- may achieve its immunosuppressive effects by inhibiting the calcium - and calmodulin-dependent phosphatase calcineurin which is required for activation of target genes by members of the NFAT -LRB- nuclear factor of activated T cells -RRB- transcription factor family.
However, IL2 does not reverse CsA inhibition, suggesting that at least one other NFAT-sensitive gene may be involved.
The human G0/G1 switch gene, G0S2, has potential NFAT-binding sites in the 5' flank and encodes a small basic potential phosphoprotein of unknown function.
Our results suggest that G0S2 expression is required to commit cells to enter the G1 phase of the cell cycle, and that, while not excluding other possible targets, early inhibition of G0S2 expression by CsA may be important in achieving immunosuppression.
G0S2 may be of value as a reporter gene for analyzing the mechanism of action of CsA and its influence on the positive and negative selection of lymphocytes in response to self and not-self antigens.
We consider the possible consequences of the reduced cellular content of TFIIH for the clinical symptoms in XP-B or XP-D patients, and discuss a ` conditional phenotype' that may involve an impairment of cellular function only under certain growth conditions.
These results indicate that the functional activity of ligands built from the binding site of G28-5 is highly dependent upon the size and physical properties of the molecule both in solution and on the cell surfaces.
Because monocytes play a pivotal role in the pathophysiology of intravascular coagulation activation through their ability to synthesize tissue factor -LRB- TF -RRB-, we asked -LRB- 1 -RRB- whether monocyte TF activation occurs in cardiac transplant recipients and -LRB- 2 -RRB- whether monocyte TF expression is affected by treatment with cyclosporin A -LRB- CsA -RRB-.
Inhibition of monocyte TF induction by CsA may contribute to its successful use in cardiac transplant medicine and might be useful in managing further settings of vascular pathology also known to involve TF expression and NF-kappaB activation.
Oxypurinol and catalase inhibited phase-1 adhesion, suggesting a role for xanthine oxidase and H2O2.
Phase-2 neutrophil adhesion was attenuated by an anti-E-selectin mAb, indicating a dominant role of this adhesion molecule in the late phase response.
Pretreatment with actinomycin D and cycloheximide or with competing ds-oligonucleotides containing the nuclear factor-kappa B or activator protein-1 cognate DNA sequences significantly attenuated phase-2 response, suggesting a role for de novo macromolecule synthesis.
Collectively, these findings indicate that A/R elicits a two-phase neutrophil-endothelial cell adhesion response that involves transcription-independent and transcription-dependent surface expression of different endothelial cell adhesion molecules.
These data suggest that IL-2 and IL-7 induce assembly of STAT heterodimers in a similar manner and that subsequent cellular responses may be driven by induction of similar sets of genes.
The recent discovery of the transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B -LRB- NF-kappa B -RRB- is reviewed and several potential pathways for cytokine-induced periodontal tissue damage, mediated by NF-kappa B1 are discussed.
The link between cellular production of such important mediators of inflammation and the antioxidant -LRB- AO -RRB- thiols, cysteine and reduced glutathione -LRB- GSH -RRB-, is discussed and it is hypothesised that NF-kappa B antagonists may offer important therapeutic benefits.
Thus, Elf-1 is able to stimulate gene transcription which may be required for the development and activity of lymphocytes.
To investigate whether the molar ratio of HSF2-alpha and HSF2-beta isoforms is crucial for the activation of HSF2 and whether the HSF2 isoforms play functionally distinct roles during the hemin-mediated erythroid differentiation, we generated cell clones expressing different levels of HSF2-alpha and HSF2-beta.
We suggest that HSF2-beta acts as a negative regulator of HSF2 activity during hemin-mediated erythroid differentiation of K562 cells.
It is not known whether and how glucocorticoids affect the function of the inflammatory infiltrate or why the disease persists subclinically despite chronic treatment.
Dose-response experiments suggested that steroid doses currently used in clinical medicine are suboptimal in repressing NFkappaB-mediated cytokine production in the inflammatory lesions.
The persistence of TGF-beta1-transcribing macrophages, despite paralysis of T cell function, may provide an explanation for the chronicity of the disease, and may identify a novel therapeutic target in this inflammatory vasculopathy.
Dose-dependence studies using histamine and dimaprit showed that the EC50 values for cAMP production and c-fos increase were similar, suggesting that cAMP might be involved in c-fos induction via H2 receptors.
These results indicate that histamine activates several mechanisms involved in the induction of differentiation, such as cAMP and c-fos production, but fails to promote differentiation of U937 cells, apparently due to the rapid desensitization of H2 receptors.
These results suggest that CMV activates these transcriptional factors, resulting in IL-8 gene expression.
Our results indicated that the epitope recognized by 18C7 was directly implicated in hormone binding.
A role in thymic maturation for factors of the NF-kappaB family has long been suspected, but not yet proven.
The sequence in which these alterations develop is unknown.
It was possible that one of the clone 13 CIITA alleles bore a mutation that allowed HLA-DQ, but not HLA-DR or - DP transcription.
Alternatively, another factor, distinct from CIITA, might control HLA-DQ expression.
To investigate the potential relevance of this mechanism in acute myocardial infarction -LRB- AMI -RRB-, we examined cytokine induction by leukocyte-platelet adhesion and the occurrence of leukocyte-platelet conjugates in patients with AMI.
Our findings suggest that leukocyte-platelet adhesion contributes to the regulation of inflammatory responses in AMI.
Aggregation was likely caused by the up-regulated surface expression of adhesion molecules including integrin alpha, L-selectin, ICAM-3, and H-CAM.
Thus, Tap is likely to be an important cellular mediator of Tip function in T cell transformation by herpesvirus saimiri.
Our data suggest that SAC may act via antioxidant mechanisms to block NF-kappa B activation in Jurkat cells.
Fab fragment of anti-E. chaffeensis immunoglobulin G complexed with E. chaffeensis did not induce any of these three cytokines, indicating that ehrlichial binding is required for IL-1beta mRNA expression and that binding of the immune complex to the Fc gamma receptor is required for TNF-alpha and IL-6 mRNA expression and enhanced IL-1beta mRNA expression.
This result implies that development of anti-E. chaffeensis antibody in patients can result in the production of major proinflammatory cytokines, which may play an important role in the pathophysiology of ehrlichiosis and immune responses to it.
An increasing body of evidence suggests that amyloid-beta -LRB- A beta -RRB- peptides and microglia are crucially involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer 's disease.
Collectively, these findings indicate that NF-kappa B activation might constitute one of the mechanisms underlying the inducible expression of kappa B-dependent genes in microglia stimulated by A beta peptides and IFN gamma, or by LPS.
The data indicate that cellular genes might be activated by Ad2 virus infection in nonpermissive cells where no viral gene products could be detected.
This cis-acting sequence contains the core binding motif, -LRB- A/T -RRB- GATA -LRB- A/G -RRB-, for GATA-binding family proteins and thus suggests the involvement of these family members.
Characterization of the cellular transcription factors interacting with the human T cell lymphotropic virus type I -LRB- HTLV-I -RRB- long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- is essential to dissecting the mechanisms involved in viral transcription that may be pertinent to the oncogenic and neuropathogenic processes associated with HTLV-I infection in both the immune and nervous systems.
Furthermore, increasing the spacing between the CRE and the kappaB3 sites completely abolished LPS induction, suggesting a cooperative interaction between c-Jun complexes and p50/p65.
These studies indicate that maximal LPS induction of the TNF-alpha promoter is mediated by concerted participation of at least two separate cis-acting regulatory elements.
Mutation of Ser184 also diminished transactivation function in B cells, suggesting that the activating phosphorylation that is inducible in T cells is constitutively present in B cells.
Thus we proposed that ETS1, which is expressed constitutively in Jurkat cells, may act in concert with PMA/ionomycin inducible factors.
Our results suggest that constitutive ETS1, and inducible NFkappaB and AP1, cooperate as part of a higher order transcriptional complex in activated T cells.
Furthermore, we demonstrate that binding of several B cell-specific transcription factors, essential for IgH 3' enhancer activity, is lacking, which may explain 3' enhancer inactivity, although the binding of repressors can not be excluded.
This has led to the suggestion that a surrogate gamma' - chain, which can interact with the IL-4R alpha chain to mediate signaling, is expressed on cells lacking gamma -LRB- c -RRB-.
An alternative possibility is that in the absence of gamma -LRB- c -RRB-, the IL-4R alpha chain is able to transduce signals by homodimerization.
These data indicate that IL-10 inhibits IFN-gamma-induced transcription of the ICAM-1 gene by a regulatory mechanism that may involve NF-kappaB.
In conjunction with previously published data on c-Raf-induced phosphorylation of GABP factors -LRB- E.Flory, A. Hoffmeyer, U.Smola, U.R.Rapp, and J.T.Bruder, J.Virol .70:2260 - 2268, 1996 -RRB-, these results indicate a contribution of GABP factors to the Raf-mediated enhancement of IL-2 induction during T-cell activation.
The heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K protein represents a novel class of proteins that may act as docking platforms that orchestrate cross-talk among molecules involved in signal transduction and gene expression.
Like Esc, Eed contains six WD-40 repeats in the C-terminal half of the protein and is thought to repress homeotic gene expression during mouse embryogenesis.
Results of this study suggest that Eed-restricted homeotic gene expression during embryogenesis reflects the action of Eed as a transcriptional repressor.
The Eed-mediated transcriptional effects are likely to reflect the interaction of Eed with multiple molecular partners, including K protein.
Previous reports have suggested the CD28 stimulation contributes to the activation of the IL-2 promoter by up-regulating the activity of several transcription factors, including AP-1 and nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- / Rel family members as well as an uncharacterized transcription factor called CD28 response complex.
While several lines of investigation have suggested that NF-kappaB/Rel family members make up the CD28 response complex transcription factor, other work has not supported this conclusion.
Recent studies suggest that the CD28 response element -LRB- CD28RE -RRB- does not function independently but works instead in conjunction with the adjacent promoter proximal AP-1-binding site and this hypothesis is confirmed here.
These data indicate that functional complexes encompassing both the CD28RE and the AP-1-binding sites influence IL-2 promoter activity in CD28-costimulated T cells.
The results indicated that the apoptosis induced by bufalin in U937 cells was significantly inhibited by overexpression of the Bcl-2 protein.
These results indicate that Bcl-2 acts downstream of MAPK kinase-1 but upstream of MAPK and suggest that, in the signaling pathway of the apoptotic process induced by bufalin, the transcriptional activity of activator protein-1 may be down-regulated through the inhibition of MAPK activity by Bcl-2.
Their different activities on the RA signalling pathway might underlie the different responses of PML-RAR alpha and PLZF-RAR alpha APLs to RA treatment.
Deletion of the PLZF POZ domain partially abrogated the inhibitory effect of PLZF-RAR alpha on RA-induced differentiation and on RA-mediated type II TGase up-regulation, suggesting that POZ-mediated protein interactions might be responsible for the inhibitory transcriptional activities of PLZF-RAR alpha.
In HIV-infected patients, such enhancement may further impair host immunity and could accelerate the course of HIV disease.
These results suggest that monoclonal integration of HTLV-1 provirus to the genome of T cell, especially the number of integration sites, is one of the factors for induction of ICAM-1 molecules.
This may be due to the fact that T cells treated with IL-2 contained those located in S + G2/M phases of the cell cycle, whereas the vast majority of T cells treated with IFN-alpha/beta were located in G0/G1 phase.
The transcriptional hierarchy of HNFs suggests that other proteins of the regulatory cascade might be responsible for other forms of MODY and/or late-onset type 2 diabetes.
The rapid up-regulation of RP1 mRNA in properly activated T cells suggests that this gene might belong to the immediate/early gene family, which controls the signal transduction cascade downstream of the TCR.
As the expression level of the RP1 gene in activated T cells and a spectrum of tumor-derived cell lines correlates with the proliferative status of the cells, members of the EB1-like gene family may not only be involved in the tumorigenesis of colorectal cancers but may also play a role in the proliferative control of normal cells.
Identification of more specific and efficacious inhibitors of NF-kappa B activation might prove beneficial for the treatment of cytokine-mediated inflammatory diseases.
These results provide new evidence for a possible relationship between the activation of the electron-transport system at the plasma membrane by ascorbate or its free radical and redox-dependent gene transcription in T-cells.
We conclude that NF-kappa B activation could constitute one of the mechanisms whereby the expression of kappa B-responsive genes is enhanced in phagocytosing neutrophils.
Our results indicate that CCK-8 exerts a trophic effect in Jurkat T cells through stimulation of CCK -LRB- B -RRB- receptors by modulation of expression of AP-1-regulated genes.
Moreover, integrin-ligand interactions trigger signaling pathways that may influence leukocyte phenotype and function at sites of inflammation.
These results suggest a novel mechanism by which integrin-mediated cell adhesion can modulate the magnitude of cytokine-induced signal transduction pathways, thereby amplifying cellular events leading to monocyte activation and inflammation.
In vitro studies demonstrated that whereas the binding affinity of NF-kappa B to the VCAM-NF-kappa B oligomer peaked at a GSH-to-oxidized glutathione -LRB- GSSG -RRB- ratio of approximately 200 and decreased at higher ratios, the binding to the E-selectin-NF-kappa B oligomer appeared relatively unaffected even at ratios > 400, i.e., those achieved in EC treated with 40 mM NAC.
These results suggest that NF-kappa B binding to its consensus sequences in the VCAM-1 and E-selectin gene exhibits marked differences in redox sensitivity, allowing for differential gene expression regulated by the same transcription factor.
Our data also demonstrate that NAC increases the GSH-to-GSSG ratio within the EC suggesting one possible mechanism through which this antioxidant inhibits agonist-induced monocyte adhesion to EC.
Because surfactant protein -LRB- SP -RRB- A is involved in local host defense in the lung and alters immune cell function by modulating the expression of proinflammatory cytokines as well as surface proteins involved in inflammation, we hypothesized that SP-A exerts its action, at least in part, via activation of NF-kappa B..
We used gel shift assays to determine whether SP-A activated NF-kappa B in the THP-1 cell line, a human monocytic cell line.
This activation is inhibited by known inhibitors of NF-kappa B or by simultaneous treatment of the cells with surfactant lipids.
These observations suggest a mechanism by which SP-A plays a role in the pathogenesis of some lung conditions and point to potential therapeutic measures that could be used to prevent SP-A induced inflammation in the lung.
Multiple functionally important EBF and E47 binding sites were identified in the lambda5 promoter/enhancer region, indicating that lambda5 is a direct genetic target for these transcription factors.
Taken together, these data suggest that EBF and E47 synergize to activate expression of a subset of genes that define an early stage of the B cell lineage.
These results indicate that CsA interferes with a specific event in the signal-induced degradation of I kappa B alpha and I kappa B beta, but does not affect the processing of NF-kappa B1/p105 to p50.
Together, these results suggest that class I triggering can induce the activity of NF-kappa B/Rel nuclear activity in peripheral blood T lymphocytes, thereby modulating the expression of genes regulated by these transcription factors.
In contrast, semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis of RNA from reticulocytes of the same chimeric animals suggested that the ES cell-derived reticulocytes were present at a level of 6 % to 8 %.
This indicated that the EKLF - / - erythrocytes in adult animals must be short-lived, apparently due to the imbalance of beta - versus alpha-globin chains, leading to the precipitation of excess alpha-globin chains to form Heinz bodies.
Together, these results suggest that in future clinical gene therapy trials, a combined pharmacologic and genetic strategy like the one reported here may improve the survival of transduced cells and prolong clinical benefit.
Despite increasing evidence that the outcome of many diseases is determined by the ratio of the two subsets of CD4 -LRB- + -RRB- T helper cells, Th1 and Th2, the molecular basis for Th1 - and Th2 - specific gene expression remains to be elucidated.
Thus, GATA-3 may play an important role in the balance between Th1 and Th2 subsets in immune responses.
Despite its reported role as a negative regulator of transcription, Ig/EBP -1 appears to exert a stimulatory effect on this promoter.
The abnormal adherence of sickle red blood cells -LRB- SS RBC -RRB- to endothelial cells has been thought to contribute to vascular occlusion, a major cause of morbidity in sickle cell disease -LRB- SCD -RRB-.
We determined whether the interaction of SS RBC with cultured endothelial cells induced cellular oxidant stress that would culminate in expression of cell adhesion molecules -LRB- CAMs -RRB- involved in the adhesion and diapedesis of monocytes and the adherence of SS reticulocytes.
These results suggest that the adherence/contact of SS RBC to endothelial cells in large vessel can generate enhanced oxidant stress leading to increased adhesion and diapedesis of monocytes, as well as heightened adherence of SS reticulocytes, indicating that injury/activation of endothelium can contribute to vaso-occlusion in SCD.
To examine the possible involvement of the increased activity of PI 3-kinase in YM268-stimulated glucose uptake, the enzyme activity was estimated by measuring the phosphatidylinositol-3 ,4,5 - trisphosphate -LRB- PI-3 ,4,5 - P3 -RRB- concentration in human monocytic cells.
These results indicate that the mechanism by which YM268 increased glucose uptake, may be accounted for in part by the enhancement of GLUT1 and GLUT4 expression through PPARgamma activation.
While IL-4 does not activate STAT5, it induces expression of STAT5-regulated genes in CTLL-2, i.e. beta-casein, a cytokine-inducible SH2-containing protein -LRB- CIS -RRB-, and oncostatin M -LRB- OSM -RRB-, suggesting that STAT6 activated by IL-4 substitutes for the function of STAT5 in T cells.
In addition, Ras -LRB- G12V -RRB- complemented signaling by an erythropoietin receptor mutant defective in Ras activation and augmented the activation of the beta-casein promoter by the mutant erythropoietin receptor signaling, suggesting a possible role of Ras in Stat5-mediated gene expression.
We determined whether Hsp70 induction by TS was mediated by the activation of the HS transcription factor, HSF.
The altered cytokine profile observed in smokers may relate to an HSF/Hsp70-mediated inhibition of NFkappaB activity.
These results indicate that LPS induction of kappaB-dependent gene expression in human monocytic cells requires activation of IKK2.
The mechanism by which progesterone causes localized suppression of the immune response during pregnancy has remained elusive.
We propose that direct inhibition of K + channels in T cells by progesterone contributes to progesterone-induced immunosuppression.
Thus, IL-12 appears to be a critical factor in the generation and maintenance of chronic inflammatory conditions.
These results suggest that the inhibition of NF-kappaB activation by ASA leads to down-regulation of IL-12 production and inhibition of Th1 cell development.
Qualitatively different effects were observed for the IL-1-induced activation of stress-activated protein -LRB- SAP -RRB- kinases : permanent overexpression of IRAK did not affect the dose dependence but prolonged the kinetics of IL-1-induced activation of SAP kinases, suggesting that this signaling branch may be regulated by distinct mechanisms.
These data demonstrate the efficiency of the system and support the notion that numerous genes falling into those categories remain unidentified and that they can be cloned by this method.
The discrepancy in the degree of inhibition by membrane extracts and NK cells with mutant TNFRI suggests that additional pathways are utilized by NK cells to activate EC.
Taken together, these data indicate that the inducible nuclear import of NF-kappa B, AP-1, NFAT, and STAT1 in Jurkat T cells can be regulated by NLS peptide delivered noninvasively to the cytoplasm of Jurkat T cells to target members of the importin -LRB- karyopherin -RRB- - alpha beta NLS receptor complex.
However, the molecular basis for the interplay between these distinct stimuli is not clearly delineated.
In contrast to induction of STATs by cytokines, the IRF-1 GAS-binding complex activated by CD40, TNF-alpha, or EBV contains Rel proteins, specifically p50 and p65.
Given the importance of IRF-1 in a variety of biologic functions from proliferation to apoptosis, our findings support the notion that modulation of IRF-1 levels may be a critical control point in B cell activation.
This observation is likely to relate to the findings that TAL1 and LMO are highly synergistic in T-cell tumorigenesis in double-transgenic mice.
Protein kinase C -LRB- PKC -RRB- activation is considered important for this process ; however, the metabolic steps at which PKC acts upon to mediate the FN-induced IL-1beta response remain unclear.
Overall, our data indicate that Calphostin C prevents the transcription of the IL-1beta gene thereby inhibiting protein synthesis.
In contrast, Staurosporine prevented secretion of IL-1beta by unknown mechanisms.
Because this region of Stat3alpha is involved in transcriptional activation, our findings suggest the possibility that Stat3gamma may be transcriptionally inactive and may compete with Stat3alpha for Stat3 binding sites in these terminally differentiated myeloid cells.
Since the activation of NFAT is MAPK-dependent these findings suggested that the activation of MAPK by Tpl-2 is either independent or only partially dependent on MEK1 and MEK2.
In addition, they suggested that the activation of the IL-2 promoter is under the control of not only NFAT but also a second factor whose activation is MEK-dependent.
While the activation of the IL-2 promoter and an NFAT-driven minimal promoter by Tpl-2 was fully blocked by the dominant negative mutant NFAT delta418, it was only partially blocked by the calcineurin inhibitor cyclosporin A suggesting that the Tpl-2-mediated NFAT activation is under the control of a combination of calcineurin-dependent and independent pathways.
Synergistic proinflammatory effects of mechanical stress and molecules such as bacterial endotoxin were observed, suggesting that mechanical ventilation might be particularly deleterious in preinjured or infected lungs.
The molecular mechanisms by which IL-4 induces expression of the IL-4 gene are not known, although the IL-4-activated transcription factor signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 -LRB- Stat6 -RRB- is required for this effect.
These cytokines are therefore candidate genes which could contribute to the development of asthma or allergies.
We investigated the hypothesis that polymorphic nucleotides within the IL-10 and TGF-beta gene promoters would link to the expression of allergies and asthma.
Cellular pathways for induction of programmed cell death -LRB- PCD -RRB- have been identified, but little is known about specific extracellular matrix processes that may affect apoptosis along those pathways.
Results indicate that TIMP-1-positive BL lines show resistance to cold-shock-induced apoptosis.
Furthermore, recombinant TIMP-1, but not TIMP-2 or a synthetic metalloproteinase inhibitor -LRB- BB-94 -RRB-, confers resistance to apoptosis induced by both CD95-dependent and - independent -LRB- cold shock, serum deprivation, and gamma-radiation -RRB- pathways in TIMP-1-negative BL lines.
These results demonstrate that TIMP-1 suppresses apoptosis in B cells and suggests a novel activity for TIMP-1 in tissue homeostasis.
Although interleukin -LRB- IL -RRB- -12 was originally purified from an Epstein-Barr -LRB- EBV -RRB- - transformed B cell line and the high correlation of EBV infection and IL-12 expression has been suggested, no study has reported whether EBV infection is directly linked to IL-12 expression.
These results suggest that transformation of primary B cells with EBV induces IL-12 expression potentially through LMP1 expression.
These results imply a potential role of the anaphylatoxins C5a and C3a in regulating leukocytes gene expression through G protein-coupled transcription factor activation.
Thus, the requirement for CD28 in IL-2 promoter activation appears to be due to RE/AP and not the NFAT or AP-1 sites.
In addition, these data suggest that transcriptional activation of RE/AP is not mediated by NFAT, because activation of a NFAT reporter is not affected by the addition of CTLA4Ig.
The former can become latently infected and are thought to be the virus reservoir in vivo, whereas the latter were shown to be permissive for lytic replication.
Disturbance of both the immune surveillance as well as viral gene regulation may result in EBV-associated disease.
We propose that the inducible transcription factor binding sites in the 5' - UTR comprise a downstream enhancer domain that can function independent of, or in concert with, the LTR promoter to rapidly increase latent proviral transcription in response to cell activation signals.
Further characterization of FKHRL1 and its related family members should shed light on the transcriptional mechanisms of this fork head gene subfamily and their role in T helper cell differentiation and regulation of cell growth.
Taken together, these observations suggest that the immunosuppressive effect of oxLDLs might operate via a dysregulation of the T-lymphocyte activation mechanisms.
Tax, the viral protein, is thought to be crucial in the development of the disease, since it transforms healthy T cells in vitro and induces tumors in transgenic animals.
The finding of Tax mutants segregating these two pathways suggested that the NF-kappaB pathway was essential for IL-2-independent growth of CTLL-2 cells while the CRE pathway was unnecessary.
Our results show that Tax has at least two distinct activities on T cells, and suggest that Tax plays a crucial role in IL-2-independent T-cell transformation induced by HTLV-1, in addition to its well-known IL-2-dependent cell transformation.
Potential role of a downstream intronic sequence for elk-1 gene expression in monocytes.
Functional analyses of DNA fragments containing the TATA element and the identification of a DNase I-hypersensitive chromatin site -LRB- HS 1 -RRB- in close proximity to the TATA box suggest that the identified TATA motif is important for elk-1 transcription in vivo.
In a variety of other cell types, which display a constitutive Elk-1 expression, HS 2 did not exist, suggesting that inducibility of elk-1 expression is associated with the presence of HS 2.
Because Egr-1 mRNA and protein levels were observed to increase significantly before induction of elk-1 expression, we propose that Egr-1 is important for the regulation of elk-1 transcription in differentiating monocytes.
Binding of RBP to this site could be inhibited by addition of EBV nuclear proteins 3 and 6, suggesting that these proteins displace RBP from its recognition sequence, removing transcriptional repression and allowing gene transcription to occur.
The study demonstrates that EBV can up-regulate IL-1beta expression, possibly by using RBP, NF-kappaB, or both.
The primary reservoir of infection consists of latently infected B lymphocytes and possibly other mononuclear cells.
Viral reactivation from latency and spread from this lymphoid reservoir is presumably required for development of nonlymphoid tumors like KS.
In addition, extracellular factor -LRB- s -RRB- released by X-ray-treated human colonic carcinoma cell line -LRB- HT29 -RRB- might activate the long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB- of HIV-1 in non-irradiated HT29 cells.
Evidence suggests that IL-10 may inhibit activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- through an unknown mechanism.
We hypothesized that IL-10 prevents human monocyte NF-kappaB activation and resultant TNF-alpha production by stabilization of IkappaB-alpha.
IL-10 appears to prevent activation of NF-kappaB by preserving IkappaB-alpha protein levels, leading to a reduction in TNF-alpha release.
Thus, Egr-2, in addition to Egr-3, regulates FasL expression in activated normal T cells, and Egr-2 is likely to play a direct role in aberrant fasL up-regulation in lpr/lpr and gld/gld CD4 -LRB- - -RRB- CD8 -LRB- - -RRB- T cells.
Further studies indicated that inhibition of GTP-cyclohydrolase I -LRB- an enzyme involved in de novo synthesis of an important cofactor for NOS activity, tetrahydrobiopterin -RRB- prevented the generation of NO in A/R-tolerant cells.
The increased NO production during the second A/R insult reduces PMN adhesion most likely by reducing the intracellular oxidant stress induced by A/R.
We hypothesized that this increased viral transcription was mediated, in part, through the phosphorylation of CREB.
Phosphorylation of CREB occurred through a herbimycin A and Rp-cAMP - sensitive pathway, suggesting phosphorylation required antecedent activation of both protein tyrosine kinases -LRB- PTK -RRB- and protein kinase A -LRB- PKA -RRB-.
Both CD2 and CD3 cross-linking increased binding of nuclear proteins to a radiolabelled CRE oligonucleotide probe in electrophoretic mobility shift assays suggesting that lymphocyte activation enhances binding independently of phosphorylation of CREB at serine 133.
These data indicate specific modulation of the CREB/ATF -1 family of transcription factors by the CD2 signalling pathway and suggest CD2 receptor modulation of CRE-mediated transcription following ligand engagement -LRB- e.g. cell-to-cell contact -RRB-.
We therefore propose that Hsp70 can be used as a vehicle for intracytoplasmic and intranuclear delivery of proteins or DNA to modulate gene expression and thereby control immune responses.
In conclusion, lysoPC markedly decreases LPS-mediated TF expression of human monocytes, the effect probably being mediated by both transcriptional and posttranscriptional mechanisms.
LysoPC may thus attenuate activation of coagulation during inflammation and atherosclerosis.
These studies demonstrate a novel and striking insensitivity of arterial endothelium to the effects of TNF and LPS and indicate a dissociation between the ability of HUAECs to upregulate nuclear factor-kappaB and VCAM-1.
Since C3a has been shown to induce PGE2 production by monocytes, and PGE2 has been shown to influence cytokine production, we investigated the potential role of PGE2 in C3a-mediated enhancement of LPS - and IL-1beta-induced IL-6 production.
Indomethacin blocked PGE2 release, but had no influence on the observed effects of C3a, suggesting that the effects of C3a on IL-6 production are independent of PGE2 formation by monocytes.
Pretreatment of PBMCs with pertussis toxin blocked the functions of C3a and C3a -LRB- desArg -RRB-, indicating that the actions of these two molecules are mediated by a G protein-coupled pathway.
Proteins involved in repression of the human beta-globin gene may be useful in the treatment of sickle cell anemia, in conjunction with therapy to reactivate fetal globin genes.
If there is a reciprocal elevation of gamma-globin expression upon repression, this approach could be useful in additional hemoglobinopathies.
We previously showed that repression of the beta-globin gene appears to be mediated through two DNA sequences, silencers I and II, and identified a protein termed BP1 which binds to both silencer sequences.
HMG-I -LRB- Y -RRB- also binds to a second oligonucleotide containing a BP1 binding site located in a negative control region upstream of the delta-globin gene, suggesting a role for HMG-I -LRB- Y -RRB- in repression of adult globin genes.
Together, these data indicate that NF-kappaB activation, required for a high level of HIV replication in thymocytes, is regulated in a specific manner in the thymic microenvironment which provides the necessary cytokines : TNF, IL-1, and IL-7.
However, the cellular functions and its role in inflammation, for example, rheumatoid synovitis, are currently unknown.
These results indicate that the adhesion of RA synovial cells to matrices such as hyaluronic acid through CD44 could up-regulate VCAM-1 expression and VCAM-1-mediated adhesion to T cells, which might in turn cause activation of T cells and synovial cells in RA synovitis.
We therefore propose that such cross-talking among distinct adhesion molecules may be involved in the pathogenesis of inflammation, including RA synovitis.
During beneficial inflammation, potentially tissue-damaging granulocytes undergo apoptosis before being cleared by phagocytes in a non-phlogistic manner.
In neutrophils, TNF-alpha caused a gliotoxin-inhibitable activation of an inducible form of NF-kappaB, a response that may underlie the ability of TNF-alpha to delay apoptosis at later times -LRB- 12-24 h -RRB- and limit its early killing effect.
Furthermore, cycloheximide displayed a similar capacity to enhance TNF-alpha induced neutrophil apoptosis even at time points when cycloheximide alone had no pro-apoptotic effect, suggesting that NF-kappaB may regulate the production of protein -LRB- s -RRB- which protect neutrophils from the cytotoxic effects of TNF-alpha.
These data shed light on the biochemical and molecular mechanisms regulating human granulocyte apoptosis and, in particular, indicate that the transcription factor NF-kappaB plays a crucial role in regulating the physiological cell death pathway in granulocytes.
These findings suggest the presence in vaginal fluid of agent -LRB- s -RRB- derived from indigenous bacteria that can activate the HIV-1 LTR, cytokine production, and NF-kappaB in cells of macrophage lineage, with possible influence on vaginal physiology and host defense.
Indeed, the availability of selective and orally active proteasome inhibitors should prove useful in delineating the roles of the proteasome and NF-kappa B in other pathophysiological conditions such as cancer and heart disease.
We demonstrate the utility of using primary lymphocyte models to study HTLV-I transcription in the context of cell signaling and suggest that activated PBMC maintain elevated levels of P-CREB, which promote basal HTLV-I transcription and enhance viral persistence in vivo.
Increased expression of wild-type NFAT1 substantially increases IL-4 promoter activity in unprimed CD4 T cells, suggesting NFAT1 may be limiting for IL-4 gene expression in this cell type.
NFAT1 appears to be the major NFAT family member responsible for the initial increased expression of IL-4 by primed CD4 T cells.
Because oleic acid is implicated in the antiatherogenic effects attributed to the Mediterranean diet, we investigated whether this fatty acid can modulate endothelial activation, ie, the concerted expression of gene products involved in leukocyte recruitment and early atherogenesis.
Although less potent than polyunsaturated fatty acids in inhibiting endothelial activation, oleic acid may contribute to the prevention of atherogenesis through selective displacement of saturated fatty acids in cell membrane phospholipids and a consequent modulation of gene expression for molecules involved in monocyte recruitment.
Using the coiled-coil region of Stat5b as the bait in a yeast two-hybrid screen, we identified the association of Nmi, a protein of unknown function previously reported as an N-Myc interactor.
Therefore, our data not only reveal that Nmi can potentiate STAT-dependent transcription, but also suggest that it can augment coactivator protein recruitment to at least some members of a group of sequence-specific transcription factors.
Activation of NF-kappa B seems to play an important role in the regulation of many proinflammatory cytokine genes, but can not be the only mechanism, since several cytokine genes lack respective binding sites in their promoter regions.
Therefore, we additionally investigated other transcription factors of possible importance such as CREB, CTF, OTF-1, and OTF-2.
To explore long-term regulatory mechanisms, we investigated the induction of transcription factors on the gene expression level which may be important to substitute for metabolized transcription factor proteins after their activation.
In conclusion, the long-term regulation of transcription factor gene expression in non-proliferating cells seems to be of minor importance after influenza infection since in apoptosisprone cells an immediate availability of transcription factor proteins is required.
The suggested roles of the downstream 3' regions acting as a Locus Control Region -LRB- LCR -RRB-, have allowed comparisons to be made between the regulation of the IgH locus with other model systems whose gene expression is governed by LCR activity.
Here we summarize the importance of the IgH 3 ` LCR and its putative functional role in IgH gene expression and compare it with the 5 ` LCR regulatory region of the human beta-globin locus.
Sequence analysis of the p40 promoter region identified two potential nuclear factor -LRB- NF -RRB- - kappaB binding sites conserved between mouse and human.
Electrophoretic mobility shift assay revealed that the potential NF-kappaB binding sequence which is located around 120 bp upstream of the transcription initiation site in murine and human p40 genes formed an NF-kappaB complex with nuclear extract from Daudi cells stimulated by CD40 ligation.
These results suggest that the NF-kappaB binding site located around 120 bp upstream of the transcription initiation site in murine and human p40 promoter regions could be important for the p40 induction by CD40 ligation via activation of NF-kappaB.
Our results imply that T cells need to maintain a certain level of NF-kappaB transcriptional activity in order to survive ; up - or down-regulation of nuclear NF kappaB through modulation of IkappaBalpha expression by cytokines or DEX may lead to cell survival or cell death, respectively.
This transcription factor is composed of products from the fos and jun proto-oncogene family and is believed to be important in regulating cell growth and proliferation.
Finally, oxidants are believed to promote intestinal epithelial cell apoptosis, and the B-cell lymphoma/leukemia -2 gene product is believed to inhibit this phenomenon in an antioxidant-dependent manner.
Taken together, these observations suggest that nontoxic concentrations of reactive metabolites of oxygen and nitrogen play an important role in regulating the expression of genes involved in the inflammatory response and in modulating apoptosis.
We hypothesized that activation of the protein kinase A signaling pathway may inhibit NF-kappaB-mediated transcription by phosphorylating proteins, such as cAMP response element-binding protein -LRB- CREB -RRB-, which compete for limiting amounts of the coactivator CBP.
These results suggest that activation of the protein kinase A pathway inhibits NF-kappaB transcription by phosphorylating CREB, which competes with p65 for limiting amounts of CBP.
Xenogeneic human serum promotes leukocyte adhesion to porcine endothelium under flow conditions, possibly through the activation of the transcription factor NF-kappa B..
Here we evaluated whether xenogeneic serum, as a source of xenoreactive natural antibodies and complement, induced endothelial cell activation with consequent leukocyte adhesion under flow conditions.
In order to elucidate possible mechanisms underlying endothelial cell activation by xenogeneic serum, we focussed on transcription factor NF-kappa B, a central regulator for the induction of different genes, including adhesive molecules and chemoattractants.
Findings that xenogeneic serum promotes leukocyte-endothelium interaction possibly through NF-kappa B activation might be relevant for designing future therapeutic strategies aimed at prolonging xenograft survival.
These findings suggest that LTR sequence changes can significantly affect basal LTR function and transcription factor recruitment, which may, in turn, alter the course of viral replication in cells of CNS and immune system origin.
To further explore the ramifications of CD19 signaling, the current study examined whether phosphorylation of Elk-1, activation of activator protein-1 -LRB- AP-1 -RRB-, or activation of nuclear factor-kappaB -LRB- NF-kappaB -RRB- transcription factors occurred following CD19 cross-linking.
These data suggest that CD19-mediated signal transduction activates different transcription factors at juxtaposed stages of B cell development that may culminate in the activation or suppression of distinct sets of genes.
Northern blot analysis failed to detect IL-2 mRNA, suggesting that IL-2 may act in a paracrine manner in vivo.
Death-inducing ligands -LRB- DILs -RRB- such as tumor necrosis factor alpha -LRB- TNFalpha -RRB- or the cytotoxic drug doxorubicin have been shown to activate a nuclear factor kappaB -LRB- NFkappaB -RRB- - dependent program that may rescue cells from apoptosis induction.
These data suggest that inhibition of NFkappaB activation may provide a molecular approach to increase apoptosis sensitivity in anticancer treatment.
Full activity can be restored by the combined action of recombinant PC4 and the PC4-depleted USA fraction, thus suggesting a joint requirement for PC4 and another, USA-derived component -LRB- s -RRB- for optimal function of Oct-1 / OCA-B in the reconstituted system.
These results lead to a general model for the synergistic function of activation domains in Oct-1 and OCA-B -LRB- mediated by the combined action of the multiple USA components -RRB- and, further, suggest a functional redundancy in general coactivators.
Conversely, a dominant negative version of TRAF6 failed to block hToll-induced activation of stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun NH2-terminal kinases, thus suggesting an early divergence of the two pathways.
The major goal of this study was to determine whether the mycobacterial cell wall component mannose-capped lipoarabinomannan -LRB- ManLAM -RRB- of Mycobacterium tuberculosis -LRB- M. tuberculosis -RRB- could activate transcription of HIV-1 in T cells with the use of an in vitro cell culture system.
The results suggest that M. tuberculosis can upregulate HIV-1 expression in T cells and could thus have the potential to influence the pathogenesis of HIV-1 infection.
We conclude that : -LRB- i -RRB- suppression of specific transcription factor functions can potentially serve as a marker of exposure to oxidative stress and its effects on human lymphocytes ; -LRB- ii -RRB- lipid peroxidation is only detectable in human lymphocytes upon exposure to weak oxidative stress which does not induce catalase activity ; -LRB- iii -RRB- therefore, transcription factor DNA-binding activities are more sensitive to oxidative stress than lipid peroxidation.
These findings suggest that TPO has a direct effect on hemoglobinization via a specific receptor on UT-7 / GMT cells.
Thus, our data suggest that TPO has a distinct action on erythropoiesis.
Accumulating data from a number of laboratories have recently indicated that the response of transcription factor NF-kappaB to alterations in the redox homeostasis of cells may play an important role in modulating immune function.
Diminished NF-kappaB activity has been shown to occur in T cells with aging, suggesting that impaired activation of NF-kappaB might occur during cellular senescence.
Similarly, substantial evidence indicates that full activation of NF-kappaB requires dual signals.
Data are also presented to suggest that the redox regulation in NF-kappaB activation may be relevant to immune-related diseases and to aging.
Adhesion to extracellular matrices is known to modulate leukocyte activation, although the mechanisms are not fully understood.
Mononuclear phagocytes are exposed to fibrinous provisional matrix throughout migration into inflammatory foci, so this study was undertaken to determine whether fibrinogen triggers activation of NF-kappa B transcription factors.
We conclude that contact with fibrinogen-derived proteins may contribute to mononuclear phagocyte activation by signaling through CD11b/CD18, resulting in selective activation of transcriptional regulatory factors, including NF-kappa B..
To determine whether the acquisition of antitumor function during ex vivo activation is associated with modifications in signal transduction capacity, the protein tyrosine kinases p56lck and p59fyn and proteins of the NF-kappaB family were analyzed in tumor-draining LN T cells.
These findings indicate that the recovery of proteins mediating signal transduction through the T cell receptor/CD3 complex in LN T cells activated ex vivo was associated with the acquisition of antitumor function.
These apparent inconsistencies reflect the complexity of the DTCs biological activities and are probably due in part to differences in dose, route of exposure, animal species used and/or specific compound tested.
DMDTC does not appear to alter NF-kappaB directly as pre-incubation of nuclear extracts with DMDTC does not diminish binding activity of this protein.
These data suggest that Rho potentiates AP-1 transcription during T-cell activation.
Tax corresponds to a 40-kDa transforming protein from the pathogenic retrovirus human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 -LRB- HTLV-1 -RRB- that activates nuclear expression of the NF-kappaB/Rel family of transcription factors by an unknown mechanism.
The pathological alteration of this cytokine pathway leading to NF-kappaB activation by Tax may play a central role in HTLV-1-mediated transformation of human T cells, clinically manifested as the adult T-cell leukemia.
To test whether this putative function of CD28 is mediated via a particular signaling pathway, we compared early signaling events initiated in resting T cells by the stimulatory mAb BW 828 with signals triggered by the nonstimulating CD28 mAb 9.3.
In contrast to the differential signaling of BW 828 and 9.3 in resting T cells, the two mAbs exhibited a similar pattern of early signaling events in activated T cells and Jurkat cells -LRB- p56 -LRB- lck -RRB- activation, association of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase with CD28 -RRB-, indicating that the signaling capacity of CD28 changes with activation.
These data support the view that stimulation through CD28 can induce some effector functions in T cells and suggest that this capacity is associated with a particular pattern of early signaling events.
In this study, we analyzed whether activities of these phosphatases are necessary for the expression of the IL-2 gene.
Inducible nitric oxide -LRB- iNO -RRB- is produced at sites of vascular inflammation by resident and nonresident vascular wall cells, but its role in the inflammatory process is not known.
These studies indicate that iNO attenuates iNOS expression in macrophages and inhibits monocyte adhesion to endothelial cells, and suggest that endogenously derived iNO may be an important autoregulatory inhibitor of vascular inflammation.
Cytokines, IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-7, IL-12, and IL-15 are key regulators of human peripheral blood T and NK cell activation and differentiation but the precise mechanisms that give rise to their differential activities within these cells are not clear.
Moreover, IL-4 costimulation with IL-2 or IL-12 does not alter their own preferential GAS-like DNA binding patterns when C epsilon -, Fc gamma RI -, and SIE GAS motif containing oligonucleotide probes are compared, suggesting that induction of GAS-like DNA-protein binding complexes by IL-2, IL-4, and IL-12 is highly selective and represents one important factor in determining specific gene activation.
Finally, we observed that activated STAT5a and STAT5b proteins form distinct Fc gamma RI GAS binding patterns in T and NK cells, suggesting that they might have different roles in gene regulation.
Our data provide evidence that the differential responses in gene expression and cell activation seen in primary NK and T cells on direct stimulation with different cytokines may be a direct result of distinct activation of STAT transcription factors.
It was proposed that the mechanism of antiviral action of S9a was on the host cell, by blocking TNF-alpha transcription via a Tat-induced tar-independent loop, which decreases downstream NF-kappaB activation of HIV-1 long terminal repeat -LRB- LTR -RRB-.
This study suggests a therapeutic approach against AIDS by application of two drugs, one against a cellular and the other a viral target, which may provide an approach to the problem of frequent emergence of resistant variants to combinations of drugs that target only HIV genes.
Nor was fragmentation observed after treatment with RU38486, indicating that repression of AP-1 activity is not involved.
However, inhibition of protein synthesis with cycloheximide anytime during the first 18 h of steroid treatment was as effective in blocking chromatin fragmentation as inhibition for the entire period, suggesting that synthesis of a component with a rapid turnover rate is required.
In addition, mild detergent treatment of cell extracts indicated that a substantial amount of cytoplasmic NF-kappaB is complexed with IkappaB alpha or some other inhibitory factor.
These results suggest that induction of a labile inhibitory factor such as IkappaB alpha may contribute to glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis.
Although the exact mechanism by which HTLV-I contributes to leukemogenesis is still unclear, the Tax protein is thought to play a major role in this process.
Taken together, our results suggest that the age-related hyporesponsiveness can not be attributed to a skewing of the T cell population towards a memory phenotype in the elderly.
To differentiate whether the RA effect was mediated by RA receptors alpha, beta, and gamma, the expression of the retinoic acid receptors -LRB- RAR -RRB- was examined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction -LRB- RT-PCR -RRB-.
These results suggest that 1 -RRB- lipid A myristoyl fatty acid, although it is important for the induction of inflammatory cytokine production by human monocytes, is not necessary for the induction of Mn SOD, 2 -RRB- endotoxin-mediated induction of Mn SOD and inflammatory cytokines are regulated, at least in part, through different signal transduction pathways, and 3 -RRB- failure of the mutant endotoxin to induce tumor necrosis factor-alpha production is, at least in part, due to its inability to activate mitogen-activated protein kinase.
Switching is hampered by CD30 coengagement, possibly through interference with the CD40-mediated NF-kappaB-dependent transcriptional activation of downstream C -LRB- H -RRB- genes.
Our data suggest that CD30 critically regulates the CD40-mediated differentiation of non-antigen-selected human B cells.
MKP-1 inactivates MAP kinase and therefore may interfere with the activation of c-jun and c-fos.
Our data have implications for the detection of potentially dysfunctional T cells in patients with cancer.
For example, the analysis of only 1 signaling molecule may allow patients with significant defects in T-cell signaling to go unnoticed.
Impairments in the translocation of Rel-B and c-Rel further suggest that the NFKB family members Rel-A, Rel-B and c-Rel are not required for the transcription of IL-2 in the peripheral T lymphocytes of patients with breast cancer.
These observations demonstrate that CD4 signaling mediates HIV-induced apoptosis by a mechanism independent of Fas-Fas ligand interaction, does not require p56 -LRB- lck -RRB- signaling, and may involve a critical region for CD4 dimerization.
Serum-equilibrated PtdIns also binds to mCD14-expressing cells, raising the possibility that endogenous PtdIns may modulate cellular responses to LPS and other mCD14 ligands in vivo.
Thus, c-erbA/TR appears to act as a binary switch affecting erythroid cell fate : unliganded c-erbA/TR supports growth while ligand-activated c-erbA/TR induces differentiation.
In marked contrast, expression of the dominant interfering deltaDNA-binding domain RXR, containing a deletion of the entire DNA-binding domain, was incompatible with erythroid cell growth in vitro, suggesting a pivotal role of RXR for erythroid cell development.
It was concluded that even when LMP1 is unable to activate NF-kappaB, it is still capable of inducing certain characteristics of activated B cells, strongly suggesting that LMP1 can also activate cells independently of NF-kappaB.
Because point mutagenesis can not distinguish between family members, it is not known which protein activates 5 ` HS3.
CONCLUSIONS : The present study indicates that activated platelets modulate chemotactic -LRB- MCP-1 -RRB- and adhesive -LRB- ICAM-1 -RRB- properties of endothelial cells via an NF-kappaB-dependent mechanism.
Platelet-induced activation of the NF-kappaB system might contribute to early inflammatory events in atherogenesis.
Our results suggest that reduced IL-2 production by neonatal T cells is specific for anti-CD3 and anti-CD3 + anti-CD28-mediated stimulation and that these activators can not effectively activate the ROI-NF-kappa B signalling pathway in neonatal T cells.
One purpose of this study was to describe the profile of transcription factor activation in these different populations, and assess whether the patterns observed correlated with functional differences in these cells.
In this study, we investigated whether these transcription factors become activated under stimulatory conditions which are known to induce gene transcription in neutrophils.
Collectively, the current findings open new perspectives about mechanisms that are likely to regulate gene transcription in neutrophils.
In addition, the procedure described herein could prove useful in other cell types that express high levels of endogenous proteases.
In contrast, expression of dominant negative mutants of Ras and Raf-1, in these cells, did not have any effect on FcR-mediated nuclear factor activation, suggesting that the mitogen-activated protein kinase -LRB- MAPK -RRB- signaling pathway was not used by these receptors.
These results strongly suggest that the signaling pathway from Fc receptors leading to expression of different genes important to leukocyte biology, initiates with tyrosine kinases and requires MAPK activation ; but in contrast to other tyrosine kinase receptors, FcR-mediated MAPK activation does not involve Ras and Raf.
Initial experiments indicated that a 50 % decrease in VDR levels was associated with a 2-fold increase in cell proliferation and a similar rise in c-myc mRNA expression.
Down-regulation of 17beta-HSD IV mRNA expression was associated with enhanced estradiol inactivation by U937 cells, suggesting a link between estrogenic pathways and cell proliferation.
Further Northern analyses indicated that there was no significant change in 17beta-HSD IV or DNA-PK -LRB- CS -RRB- mRNA levels following treatment with 1,25 -LRB- OH -RRB- 2D3, although expression of both genes varied with changes in cell proliferation.
These data suggest that, in addition to its established role as a hormone-dependent trans-activator, VDR may influence gene expression by ligand-independent mechanisms.
These results indicate that cepharanthine is a highly potent inhibitor of HIV-1 replication in a chronically infected monocytic cell line.
Since biscoclaurine alkaloids, containing cepharanthine as a major component, are widely used for the treatment of patients with various inflammatory diseases in Japan, cepharanthine should be further pursued for its chemotherapeutic potential in HIV-1-infected patients.
In this study, we present evidence indicating that signal transduction pathways induced by PGE2 necessitate the participation of cyclic AMP, protein kinase A, and Ca2 +.
Experiments conducted with different HIV-1 LTR-based vectors suggested that PGE2-mediated activation effect on HIV-1 transcription was transduced via both NF-kappaB-dependent and - independent signaling pathways.
Results from Northern blot and flow cytometric analyses, as well as the use of a selective antagonist indicated that PGE2 modulation of HIV-1 LTR-driven reporter gene activity in studied T lymphoid cells is transduced via the EP4 receptor subtype.
These results suggest that secretion of PGE2 by macrophages in response to infection or inflammatory activators could induce signaling events resulting in activation of proviral DNA present into T cells latently infected with HIV-1.
Our results suggest that the TNFalpha gene could be one of the targets of NF-kappaB in EBV infected cells and that NF-kappaB protects EBV-infected cells from apoptosis induced by TNFalpha, which may favour the proliferative effect of this cytokine.
Ligation of CD3 also induces the tyrosine phosphorylation of HS1, a 75-kDa hematopoietic cell-specific intracellular signaling protein of unknown function.
In vivo studies indicated that CD3-induced HSI phosphorylation was dependent upon both the Src family tyrosine kinase Lck and the tyrosine phosphatase CD45, did not require MEK1 kinase activity, and was regulated by protein kinase C activation.
Sequence-specific DNA-binding small molecules that can permeate human cells potentially could regulate transcription of specific genes.
The ability of small molecules to target predetermined DNA sequences located within RNA polymerase II promoters suggests a general approach for regulation of gene expression, as well as a mechanism for the inhibition of viral replication.
Preliminary observations also indicate possible correlation with clinical variables such as stage in selected instances.
Moreover, impaired activation of NFkappaB does not appear linked to a reduction of TCRzeta expression, because in five patients, normal TCRzeta levels were present although kappaB binding was not inducible.
In the majority of patients with advanced RCC, peripheral blood T cells express TCRzeta and p56 -LRB- lck -RRB-, and in a subset, reduced levels of these TCRzeta associated molecules are seen that may increase during cytokine-based therapy.
Abnormal activation of NFkappaB is also present in > 50 % of patients and may also revert to normal during IL-2 / IFN alpha-based treatment.
The clinical significance of these findings remains unclear.
Our data suggest that differentiation dependent increase of lysosomal acid lipase -LRB- LAL -RRB- expression in THP-1 cells is mediated by a concerted action of Sp1 and AP-2.
The mechanism by which early lymphoid cells are selectively transformed by v-Abl is currently unknown.
To determine whether activation of these cytokine signaling pathways by v-Abl is important in the cellular events induced by the Abelson murine leukemia virus, the effects of IL-4 and IL-7 on pre-B cells transformed with a temperature-sensitive v-Abl mutant were examined.
These results identify a potential role for IL-7 signaling pathways in transformation by v-Abl while demonstrating that a combination of IL-4 and IL-7 signaling can not substitute for an active v-Abl kinase in transformed pre-B cells.
We also examined the possibility that Akt/PKB is regulated by Ras signaling pathways in T lymphocytes.
